---
layout: post
title: "13535"
description: "Employing Canadians, Part 0: Are you really remote friendly?"
---

If you are, then why are you telling people in ex-US locations that you can’t employ them? You can.

There are multiple ways to do it. It’s often cheaper. And it’s easy.

For companies that espouse remote work policies, hiring someone based in (for example) Canada is often cheaper than hiring someone based in the USA. Yes! Cheaper! Even with the fees charged by PEO or EOR companies. This is because US social security payroll deductions on the employer side are very high in comparison to Canada’s CPP system, and because health/dental plans in the United States are ruinously expensive compared to Canadian ones. Even factoring in employer-side health care taxes in Canada (which are similar to Medicare), it remains cheaper, especially for higher-paid workers. How much cheaper? Well, for a salaried employee earning $160k USD, it would be about 3.5% cheaper to employ a Canadian through a typical EOR setup. 

It's also not complicated. Do you use a vendor to handle your payroll such as ADP? Or a vendor to handle certain software deployment? Or starting material synthesis? Or literally any other aspect of your business that isn’t done in-house? This is the same thing. PEO and EOR organizations are vendors like any other. The burden of beginning a business relationship with one really should not be a deterrent unless you generally feel an aversion to obtaining goods or services in exchange for money.

And if you do still feel deterred, guess what? You can still employ someone ex-US very easily. If they have a US-based bank account, you can simply take them on as a contractor, and they can handle their own personal income taxes. This is even simpler, since there are no benefits and no withholding, no third-party organizations, and no burden on the employer side.

Why am I telling you this?

Because I recently left a company that understood all this and employed me from the US while allowing me to live in Canada using one of the systems above. But that role ended a couple of months ago and I am now waist-deep in what I can confidently rank as the most frustrating job search of my career. I have been turned away from multiple allegedly remote-friendly roles because of my location, and the claimed difficulties of paying someone ex-US. I naively thought that most companies would have the same knowledge and understanding as my previous employer, but I have been proven resoundingly wrong over the past two and a half months.

I have made significant efforts in my life and career to remain in Canada. I was born here, I was raised here, I was educated here, I’ve made lifelong friends here, I was married here, I became a father here. My parents will require care here eventually. While I have lived in many places within Canada (Ontario, Quebec, and Alberta) I’ve essentially always lived within my home country. 
However, career options for chemists in Canada are very different from those in the United States. I will not delve into why or make too many judgments on this (this could fill a book) but suffice it to say that:

* Jobs within the field tend to be scarcer; 
* the majority of the available work tends to be for contract organizations as opposed to sponsor companies, and there truly are very few sponsor companies;
* the pay is often lower for similar work at a similar experience level; and 
* the cost of living is at least as high, often higher than some places in the USA.

I was extremely fortunate in beginning my career to find positions that allowed me to hone my craft while remaining in Canada, first in an on-site role doing process development and manufacturing (for a company that represents an extreme rarity in Canada), followed by a remote role that placed more emphasis on strategy, planning, project oversight, vendor management, and high-level CMC work. I didn’t realize at the time, but this latter role was very nearly unique in the industry—the combination of remote work and allowing ex-US employees creates a Venn diagram with nearly zero overlap.

So, having parted ways with this second employer, I now find myself in a position where I am being told—quite contrary to my own intimate knowledge of the topic—that employing ex-US people for remote roles is not possible. I am beginning to get very frustrated indeed at hearing this dismissive and incorrect assertion.

It absolutely is possible, there are multiple ways to do it, and it’s cheaper. 

In a series of posts here and on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nickuhlig/), I will illustrate how, and run through some calculations of the costs.
