MADE**INCANADA.** {#madeincanada. .Title}
=================

version 2.3.

A guide to clothing and accessories made in Canada, for  discerning Canadian purchasers.

Compiled and arranged by Nick Uhlig.

Version 2.3 completed & published online 28 June 2017.

TABLEOFCONTENTS.
================

INTRO**DUCTION.**

[i. WHATISMADEINCANADA?](#i.-whatismadeincanada)

[ii. USINGTHISGUIDE.](#ii.-usingthisguide.)

THE**LIST.**

[1. BLANKGARMENTS&MANUFACTURERS.](#blankgarmentsmanufacturers.)

[2. PANTS&DENIM.](#pantsdenim.)

[3. MEN'S&WOMEN'SAPPAREL.](#menswomensapparel.)

[4. WOMEN'SAPPAREL.](#womensapparel.)

[5. MEN\'STAILORED&DRESSATTIRE.](#menstailoreddressattire.)

[6. STREETWEAR.](#streetwear.)

[7. ATHLETIC&SPORTSWEAR.](#athleticsportswear.)

[8. OUTERWEAR.](#outerwear.)

[9. LEATHER&SHOES.](#leathershoes.)

[10. UNDERWEAR&SOCKS.](#underwearsocks.)

[11. BABIES&CHILDREN.](#babieschildren.)

[12. ACCESSORIES.](#accessories.)

POST**SCRIPT.**

[iii. FINALWORD.](#iii.-finalword.)

[iv. CHANGELOG](#iv.-changelog)

i. WHATISMADEINCANADA?
======================

The Competition Bureau has two sets of guidelines for products sold as
being made in Canada. These are "Made in Canada" and "Product of
Canada". The latter is the more strict of the two, as illustrated by the
guidelines shown below:

\"Product of Canada\" Claims

> The Bureau generally will not challenge a representation that states that a good is a \"Product of Canada\" under the false or misleading representations provisions of the Acts if these two conditions are met:

> 1.  the last substantial transformation of the good occurred in Canada;    and

> 2.  all or virtually all (at least 98%) of the total direct costs of producing or manufacturing the good have been incurred in Canada.

\"Made in Canada\" Claims

> The Bureau will generally not challenge a representation that a good is \"Made in Canada\" under the false or misleading representations provisions of the Acts if these three conditions are met:

> 1.  the last substantial transformation of the good occurred in Canada;

> 2.  at least 51% of the total direct costs of producing or manufacturing the good have been incurred in Canada; and

> 3.  the \"Made in Canada\" representation is accompanied by an appropriate qualifying statement, such as \"Made in Canada with imported parts\" or \"Made in Canada with domestic and imported parts\". This could also include more specific information such as \"Made in Canada with 60% Canadian content and 40% imported content\".

In both cases, all of the conditions must be met in order for the company to thoroughly avoid getting into trouble over the labelling of their products.

The Competition Bureau accepts complaints from customers who feel that the claims made by companies are false, or  exaggerated. This can include things like deceptively Canadian branding when the garment is in fact imported. I encourage everyone to register complaints if they see such practices.

If you\'ve ever looked closely at your clothing label, you may have noticed that the tag (inside the garment, usually on the left side of the body, though sometimes the label at the neck) has something that looks like this on it:

100% COTTON\
WASH COLD WITH LIKE COLOURS\
TUMBLE DRY LOW\
MADE IN CANADA\
CA 12345

The last bit, the CA with five numbers, is a unique identifier for any
business that \"manufactures, processes or finishes of a textile fibre
product, or is engaged in the business of importing or selling any
textile fibre product in Canada\". These numbers are searchable in the
Industry Canada (Competition Bureau) database, which you can find
[here](http://www.competitionbureau.gc.ca/eic/site/cb-bc.nsf/eng/h_02575.html).

This lets you find out more about the supply chain through which your
garments travel, and in some cases allows you to know who actually made
the clothing you wear. Companies often contract the manufacture of their
garments, and the CA number will usually tell you exactly who made it,
regardless of whose label is on it.

More information about "Made in Canada" claims can be found
[here](http://www.competitionbureau.gc.ca/eic/site/cb-bc.nsf/eng/03169.html)
at the Competition Bureau's website.

ii. USINGTHISGUIDE.
===================

This guide is by no means considered exhaustive. It is the result of
some hobbyist detective work, careful shopping, internet conversations,
and random discoveries made from approximately 2012 to 2017. There are
almost certainly more brands out there who manufacture their goods in
Canada. I would be eager to hear about them. If you come across a
company---or decide to found one yourself---please contact me at
<clothingfromcanada@gmail.com>.

Bolded words (such as the names of the companies herein) are hyperlinks.
Clicking on them will take you to a website, most usually the landing
page of a company or their webstore. There are also a few peppered
throughout the document that refer to other web pages for pertinent
reading. The table of contents also contains hyperlinks to allow jumping
to different points in the document.

This document is organized into sections based on the type of clothing,
for easy searches. There is occasionally overlap between categories.
Within each category, the companies are listed in alphabetical order
with a short description and some details of where they manufacture.
Some entries are more sparse than others, due to paucity of available
information, or possibly just hastiness or laziness on my part.

The companies here listed were selected with a rather nebulous list of
criteria. One major limitation is that the list does not include
merchants who have storefronts on sites like Etsy. Were this the case,
the list would be far longer and more difficult to keep up-to-date. I
encourage anyone interested in buying locally made goods to look on
sites like Etsy as well, as there is a wealth of options available for
Canadian-made clothing and accessories. They also have [an established
community of Canadian makers](https://www.etsy.com/ca/madeincanada), who
recently did a series of nation-wide pop-up markets in 2016.

I am indebted to a number of sources for inciting my interest in
made-in-Canada clothing and fashion. In order of publication:

[The challenge: to live (and buy) 100%
Canadian.](http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/small-business/sb-growth/the-challenge-to-live-and-buy-100-canadian/article594351/)

**Gail Johnson, *The Globe and Mail*, 15 Sept. 2011**

[They make it here, or do they? The confusing and opaque search for
clothing that's truly made in
Canada.](http://news.nationalpost.com/life/style/they-make-it-here-or-do-they-the-confusing-and-opaque-search-for-clothing-thats-truly-made-in-canada)

. Nathalie Atkinson, *The National Post*, 6 Jul 2013

[Why small manufacturers are returning to 'Made in
Canada'](http://business.financialpost.com/entrepreneur/why-small-manufacturers-are-returning-to-made-in-canada)

Alexandra Lopez-Pacheo, *The Financial Post*, 14 Jul 2013

[The "made in Canada" brand: does it even make any economic
difference?](http://business.financialpost.com/news/retail-marketing/the-made-in-canada-brand-does-it-even-make-any-economic-difference)

Armina Ligaya, *The Financial Post*, 15 Feb 2014

I would also like to thank all the Canadian redditors in [this original
thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/4bkiwa/madeincanada_clothing_a_list/)
who provided links and information to help me expand this list.
Corrections to manufacturing locations, names of companies, and even
some unfortunate news about companies offshoring their manufacturing are
all owed to the users who commented on that thread. Thanks, reddit.

Please feel free to contact me at the e-mail address noted above for any
other comments or concerns about this guide.

Now on to the list.

1. BLANKGARMENTS&MANUFACTURERS.
===============================

[Chemise Empire (Empire Shirts)](http://empireshirt.com/products/)

Made in Louiseville, QC. Uniform, dress, and military shirt makers.
Raised by Wolves used their services for oxford cloth button downs in
one season a couple years back.

[CYC Design Corporation](http://cycdesigncorp.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Founded in 1996 by Craig Atkinson, originally to
cater to Japanese companies. More recently they have produced and
designed garments for Arc'teryx and MEC, as well as companies in the
U.S.A. like Alife and Engineered Garments. This is the manufacturer that
makes garments for Wings + Horns and Reigning Champ (all owned by the
same people as CYC), and also Supreme at one point (possibly still). Not
sure if they do their own knitting and dyeing, but at the very least the
sewing is done there.

[Ethica/Attraction](http://www.ethi.ca/home.html)

Made in Lac Drolet, QC. Garments featuring organic cotton and some
recycled fabrics, with a focus on sustainability. They make a lot of
your basic items, like t-shirts and sweats, as well as some accessories
like scarves, mittens, and tuques.

[Highline Apparel](http://highlineapparel.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Shirts, sweats, and a few accessories made using
primarily organic ringspun cotton, as well as other fabrics like 50/50
cotton-poly. Company focus on sustainable practices and involvement with
green initiatives in Ontario.

[Jerico](http://www.jerico.ca/)

Knit, cut, dyed, and sewn in Scarborough (Toronto), ON. Basic tees,
sweats, polos, and occasionally shorts/pants. Unisex, as well as male-
and female-specific styles.

[WS & Co](http://www.wsandcompany.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Parent company of the [Redwood
Classics](http://redwoodclassics.net/) label, which consists primarily
of tees and sweats. Their factory does private label work for many
brands and has also produced the Olympic apparel for both Roots and
Hudson's Bay Company.

[Roopa Knitting Mills](http://roopaknitting.com/)

Knit, cut, dyed, and sewn in Caledon, ON. They also sell fabrics, as
opposed to finished/sewn garments. They make the sweats that Raised by
Wolves use in many of their lines.

[Shirtfit](http://shirtfit.com/about/)

Made in Concord, ON. Parent company of Shirtfit and Royal Shirt Co.
Founded in 1969 by Italian immigrants Luigi and Maria d'Abbondanza, and
now helmed by their daughter Anita. Yet another manufacturer that was
tapped by Raised by Wolves for some of their elongated flannel
button-downs in the Fall/Winter 2015 release. Shirtfit has also made
garments for Harry Rosen and Barney's New York. Royal Shirt Co. is
stocked by Model Citizen in Toronto's Kensington Market neighbourhood,
the only retailer in Canada that I know of for this brand.

[Vetements Cookshire Inc](http://www.vetementscookshire.com/en)**.**

Made in Cookshire, QC, just outside of Sherbrooke. Owned by the folks
who founded the QuÃ©bec-based Tristan (also known as Tristan et Iseut)
clothing store, this maker of blazers and jackets for men and women was
opened quite recently, in 2013 I believe.

2. PANTS&DENIM.
===============

[Arturo Denim Co.](https://www.arturodenim.ca/)

Made in Beauce, QC and Edmonton, AB. A recently-founded Edmonton-based
label that makes jeans for men and women. The majority of their pants
are made by the same factory that produces Second Jeans (see below), but
they also make a small portion of their line in their Edmonton studio on
124^th^ street.

[The Canadian Denim Company](http://www.canadiandenim.com/)

Made in Montréal, QC (possibly). Kickstarter that aimed to establish another Canadian denim brand. Denim is sourced from Cone mills in Greensboro, NC and the jeans are sewn in Canada (probably in Montreal or Beauce, QC), and finished off with repurposed moose leather patches obtained from the Wendake Huron-Wendat First Nations. They currently have one fit, the Louie, which is a slim-straight 13.5 oz. jean.

[dutil.](http://www.dutildenim.com/brands/dutil.html)

Made in California, USA. Denim shop right next to Sydney's on Queen
Street in downtown Toronto. They make some of their own items. Their
denim fabric itself also comes from Cone Mills, and is sewn in
California. One of two exceptions on this list.

[Naked & Famous](http://nakedandfamousdenim.com/))

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Founded by a rather interesting fellow named
Brandon Svarc. Known previously for their use of weird fabrics (like
glow-in-the-dark and mint scratch-and-sniff denim\...seriously) and for
making [the world\'s heaviest denim
jeans](http://www.heddels.com/2012/03/creating-a-monster-naked-famous-32-oz-raw-denim/).
Primarily men\'s raw/selvedge denim, and some apparel (including
sweaters and button-downs) but they\'ve also started making ladies\'
denim in a couple of fits. They also recently collaborated with an
increasingly popular menswear company called [Frank &
Oak](http://www.frankandoak.com/) for a few pieces. Frank & Oak do not
typically manufacture in Canada, unfortunately. N&F have shifted
recently from the "weird" denim styles they used to be known for into a
more refined and "serious" label, targeting denim-heads around the
world. Online shop is located at [Tate &
Yoko](https://tateandyoko.com/), whose prices are very unfortunately all
in US dollars, though there's a 20% discount for Canadian customers to
offset the difference.

[OlÃ© Denim](http://www.oledenim.com/about-ole/)

Made in USA, but a Canadian company: Headquartered in Saskatoon, SK.
Newcomer to the raw denim market. The second of two exceptions on this
list, as they manufacture in the United States. The denim itself comes
from Kuroki Mills, in Japan.

[Second Jeans](http://www.secondclothing.com/)

Made in Beauce, QC. Known for their \"yoga jeans\" which have a lot of
stretch and are apparently quite comfortable. A favourite of many women
I know. They also make some other women\'s garments, but free moving
jeans are the mainstay. Direct quote from a lady I know who tried their
jeans: "They make my bum look like some sort of exotic fruit."

[United Stock Dry Goods](https://unitedstockdrygoods.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Company started by the owner of Sydney\'s, a
menswear shop located on Queen Street West in downtown Toronto. Raw
denim is the focus, but they also make menswear. They have two fits of
jean (narrow and slight, with slight being the skinnier of the two) in
several colours each, as well as making some sweats, tees, and button
downs.

3. MEN'S&WOMEN'SAPPAREL.
========================

![](media/image11.jpeg){width="1.3694444444444445in"
height="2.2291666666666665in"}![](media/image12.jpeg){width="3.6069444444444443in"
height="2.2256944444444446in"}![](media/image13.jpeg){width="2.5027777777777778in"
height="2.2256944444444446in"}

[18 Waits](http://18waits.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Menswear. They make everything from sweaters and
tees to full suits and outerwear. Their clothes follow a less-is-more
design approach, often with clean, almost minimalist aesthetics, though
they usually have flannels and button-downs in more dynamic patterns.

[60Â°N 95Â°W](http://60n95w.com/)

Not sure where in Canada it's made. Basic unisex stuff like t-shirts and
sweats, some of which feature Chris Hadfield (like a skateboarding
astronaut graphic tee).

[Abaka](http://abaka.ca/)

Made in Shawinigan, Victoriaville, and MontrÃ©al, QC. Athletic-leaning
casual wear for adults and children. They make underwear as well as
basics like sweats, tees, and long-sleeves for men. Dresses, tops, and
leggings for the ladies. They focus on using eco-friendly and natural
fibres like hemp, tencel, and bamboo.

[Alberta Apparel](https://albertaapparel.com/)

Not sure where it's made. Unisex casualwear for adults and children,
prominently featuring Albertan iconography. One of their staples seems
to be the trucker hat with the province of Alberta shield on it.

[AniÃ¡n](http://www.anianmfg.com/)

Made in Victoria, BC. Surfing-inspired clothing. Targeted towards men
mostly, but some unisex styles as well. Button-down shirts, tees,
sweats, hats, and accessories. They also make actual surfboards in a
variety of sizes and styles.

[Atelier B](https://atelier-b.ca/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Minimalist clothing for adults. Button-down shirts
for men and women, skirts, dresses, and tops for the ladies, and some
outerwear and aprons as well as a handful of accessories. Solid colours
with the occasional playful pattern. Very much in keeping with a
Japanese minimalism sort of look, with an emphasis on natural fabrics
like waxed canvas and linen.

[Awaken Apparel](http://facebook.com/60n95w)

Not sure where made, probably Victoria or somewhere on Vancouver Island.
Simple items like henleys, tank tops, sweats, and tees for men and
women. Most of their clothes use bamboo fiber, and they aim to
manufacture clothing as sustainably as possible. They donate 10% of
their profits to the Ancient Forest Alliance.

[Bon Vivant](http://bonvivantshop.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Menswear. In-house brand of a shop that sells a
lot of the Canadian-made fashions here. They make button-down shirts,
some pants and shorts, and a few bags. Style is sort of a toss-up
between Naked & Famous and Muttonhead. They have shirts in nice solid
colours, as well as some more interesting patterns, and in a range of
fabrics including oxford cloth, linen, and gingham. Most of their
fabrics are produced in Japan and the garments are made here.

[Bonnetier](https://lebonnetier.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC, probably. Men's, women's, and children's casual
clothing, manufactured in Quebec and silk-screened by hand in Montreal.
Mostly t-shirts, with some sweats, dresses, and socks rounding out the
line. Most garments are made from merino wool.

[Boutique Blank](https://www.boutiqueblank.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC, and environs. Casual wear for adults and children.
Men's fashions consist mostly of tees, long-sleeves and sweats, while
the women's line also extends to skirts and dresses along with other
casual wear. They have a few items for babies and some accessories as
well (bag, watch cap, etc.). They are the sister brand of
[Ionik](https://www.ioniksport.com/) (see the [athletic &
sportswear](#athleticsportswear.) section).

[Buttercream Clothing](https://buttercreamclothing.com/)

Made in Kelowna, BC (probably). Primarily women's apparel and
accessories, but they have a limited range of clothing geared towards
men as well. Their range is definitely targeted to 20 to 30 somethings,
and is pretty casual in tone for the most part, though they do stock
some dresses and skirts for women, as well as a few accessories and even
some kimonos and ponchos.

[le ChÃ¢teau](http://www.lechateau.com/)

Headquartered in Ville St.-Laurent, QC. Some items made in Canada, most
are not. Not sure where exactly the MiC stuff is actually manufactured.
Men's and women's formal-ish clothing. Bit of a younger look to most of
their clothing, and generally they put more emphasis on their women\'s
line. Found in malls everywhere.

[C&O Apparel](http://www.coapparel.ca/)

Made in Burnaby, BC. Menswear and womenswear. Parent company that
manufactures under several brands, both created by them and acquired
from other companies, spanning regular apparel to winter-oriented
outerwear. Their own label "Rough Dress" is, I believe, sold at Costco.
They also have a label called "Tuff Athletics" that sells, as you
guessed, athletic wear. Their website suggests that they do some
manufacturing overseas, but this could be in reference to the sourcing
of their fabrics, as opposed to the actual construction of garments.

[Chlorophylle](http://www.chlorophylle.net/)

Some items made in QuÃ©bec, most made overseas. QuÃ©bÃ©cois outerwear
company, making everything from winter jackets to underwear and
accessories for men and women.

[Commonwealth Manufacturing](http://www.commonwealthmfg.com/)

Made in Winnipeg, MB. Men's shirts. Small batches of mostly long-sleeved
button down shirts in fabrics ranging from wool to chambray to flannel.
Made by a few dudes in a Winnipeg workshop. One of few brands that
incorporates [transparency
pricing](http://www.commonwealthmfg.com/blog/2016/7/14/transparency-pricing)
into their model. This makes for a very interesting read (even if it is
a short one).

[East Coast Lifestyle](http://www.eastcoastlifestyle.com)

Some items made in Canada, not sure where. Brand is based out of
Halifax, NS. Sweats, tees, some accessories such as hats and bags.
Leaning towards streetwear in their aesthetic. Of 156 items in their
online store, 26 (17%) are made here (you can filter for it in their
webstore). The made in Canada items are predominantly sweats and
t-shirts.

[Egli's Sheep Farm](https://eglifarm.com/)

Made in Minnitaki, ON. High-quality woolen knits and accessories for
adults and children. Founded in 1952 by Swiss immigrants Robert and
Margarit Egli. Fairly well-known for their sheepskin slippers, which are
incredibly warm and cushy and will last many years if treated well.

[Flannel Foxes](https://flannelfoxes.com/)

Based in Edmonton, AB, made elsewhere in Canada by contract
manufacturers. A line of outdoorsy and mostly unisex clothing featuring
lots of plaid/tartan, as well as solid colour sweats and tuques, and
some graphic tees. Not all of their stuff is made in Canada. Main
exceptions are headwear.

[Foreign Rider](https://www.foreignrider.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Simple menswear staples made in small batches.
Hoodies, tees (long- and short-sleeved), shorts, and polos. They also
sell photography by one Ralph Dunning, as well as a small set of cotton
blend blankets.

[Freyja Canada](http://freyjawoolstore.com/)

Made in Canada, not sure where. Headquartered in Toronto, ON. Sweaters,
hats, and accessories for men and women. All products are made of 100%
Icelandic wool. Designs and patterns are fairly "traditional" winter
fare, with beautiful results.

[Granted Clothing](http://www.grantedclothing.com/)

Made in Richmond, BC. Beautiful hand-knit wool sweaters and accessories
with lots of interesting patterns (including things like owls and CBC
logos).

[Harris Loungewear](https://harrisloungewear.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON (probably) though originally the company is from
Tilsonburg, ON. Men's loungewear, including tees, sweats, and
shorts/boxer briefs. Primarily made from bamboo fibre. Brother brand of
[This is J](https://thisisj.com/) (see women's apparel), a women and
children's casual wear brand.

[Hemp & Co.](http://www.hempandcompany.com/)

Made in Victoria, BC. Clothing for men and women made from
Canadian-grown hemp. Most styles are fairly casual, comprising tees,
sweats, and even some underwear, but they carry men's oxford cloth
button-downs, and skirts and dresses for the ladies as well.

[Homespun Knitwear](http://www.homespunknitwear.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. High-quality shirts, primarily tees of several
varieties and Henleys (the shirts with a few buttons in the centre of
the neck). Not available online from the manufacturer, only from
resellers/stockists.

[Illbury & Goose](http://www.illburyandgoose.com/)

Made primarily in London, ON, but also in other locations. Men's and
women's clothing, accessories, and so on. This company does a little bit
of everything, from unisex apparel to apothecary products to accessories
and leather goods. Not everything is made here, but most of it is, by
local artisans from whom I&G source the final products. The company name
comes from businesses started by family members of the two founders,
"Illbury Furs" and "Nielsen\'s Flowers & The Country Goose", both
originally founded in 1928 (neither is operational any more).

[Marc de Storm](https://www.marcdestorm.com/)

Made in Montreal, QC. Menswear for cyclist commuters. They make a small
line of button-down shirts, polos, and short/long-sleeved tees in
functional fabrics.

[Marmier](https://marmier.ca/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. No-nonsense contemporary menswear, including
short- and long-sleeved button downs, tees, sweats, shorts, and
trousers. The button downs incorporate a few very simple patterns, while
all other garments are solid colours primarily in earth tones. They also
feature a number of accessories, including belts, tuques, and scarves.

[Movementglobal](https://www.movementglobal.com/)

Probably made in Vancouver, BC. A toss-up between activewear and
everyday clothing, primarily for women but with a small men's line as
well. Dresses, tunics, sweats, and so on for the ladies; shorts and a
few tees and long-sleeves for the men. Most of the garments are made
using bamboo fabric.

[Muskoka Bear Wear](http://muskokabearwear.com/)

Made in the Muskoka region, ON. Casuals and loungewear for men, women,
and kids. Similar in aesthetic to the Roots camp clothing, but actually
made in Canada, instead of just pretending to be. They even have made in
Canada socks. Nifty.

[Muttonhead](http://www.muttonheadstore.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON for the most part. Lots of sweats, tees, hats, dress
shirts, and slacks, with a more active, outdoorsy slant. All their
clothes are designed to be unisex, and most are entirely manufactured in
Toronto. Some are made in the USA hats and baseball shirts, for
instance). Recent lines have begun to incorporate more technical
fabrics, like their waterproof camping hoodies and some of their
jackets.

Needs&Wants Studios

Made in Toronto, ON. Forward-thinking men\'s apparel, including jackets
and flannel button-downs with unique silhouettes and patterns. One of
their trademarks is a peacoat or coach's jacket with each sleeve being a
different colour or material (wool on one side and leather on the other,
for instance).

[Noctex](https://www.shopnoctex.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Apparel for men and women. Often oversized, long
sleeved, and drapey fits in keeping with current fashion trends. Several
unisex garments including extended pullover hoodies and t-shirts. Their
women's line has a very androgynous feel to it. Most fabrics are
monochrome; whites, greys, and blacks. Almost all of the fabrics they
use are deadstock, meaning they would otherwise just collect dust or get
thrown out. They are also generally milled in the United States, and
mostly made from natural source materials. Founded in 2011 by Negin
Izad.

[North American Quality
Purveyors](http://shopnorthamerican.com/collections/naqp)

Some items made in Toronto, ON, others elsewhere. NAQP is an online shop
that has a lot of made in Canada and made in USA brands for sale, but
they also have their own small line consisting of sweaters,
button-downs, t-shirts, and some accessories like hats and gloves. The
tees and sweats are made in Toronto by [WS &
Co](http://www.wsandcompany.com/) (see the [blanks &
manufacturers](#blankgarmentsmanufacturers.) section).

[Nuvango](https://ca.nuvango.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Exceedingly loud clothing for men and women,
including graphic tees, bodysuits, tank tops, boxer briefs, *jinbei*
(misnamed as kimonos on the website), and so on. They even have some
kids apparel. Lots of the garments are made of polyester, and if I were
a gambling man I would put my money on these being sublimation printed
garments. The Imaginary Foundation does these as well

[Of Sharks & Men](http://www.ofsharksandmen.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Menswear with a more playful slant. Bright colours
and understated patterns can be found in their button-down shirts, and
they stock some graphic tees/tanks as well as some pretty sharp-looking
trousers. Releases during colder seasons feature more muted colours,
often in block patterns on sweaters or tees. In past seasons they've
also made some reversible tees similar to those that Muttonhead has
released.

[Outclass](http://outclass.ca)

Made in Toronto, ON. Menswear. Basics like slacks and button-downs, as
well as more casual wear, all often with unique prints and cuts. Some of
their garments are a bit more on the flamboyant side, but they also make
clean, solid-coloured styles as well.

[Parks Canada](http://parkscanadashop.ca/)

Not sure where they're made. A lot of the gear that Parks Canada sells
is actually made here, which is pretty nice. Shirts, caps, jackets,
shawls, and all sorts of other stuff for adults and children, all
celebrating our national parks and featuring that handsome beaver logo.

[PiÃ±a Styles](http://www.pinastyles.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC, and printed in Ucluelet, BC. Predominantly sweats
and tees for men and women. All garments feature original artwork by the
Angie Roussin, the owner. The designs are screen printed by hand onto
the shirts in their Ucluelet studio. The artwork consists of a lot of
intricate line work and has a distinctly west-coast vibe to it (whales,
bears, salmon, lots of ocean and forest iconography) and ranges from
highly colourful to black and white. Founded in 2007.

[Pollen Sweaters](https://pollensweaters.com/)

Made in Powell River, BC. Simple, no-nonsense woolen sweaters for adults
and children. They use a special type of wool that is non-itchy and
machine washable for easy care. Their garments come in an almost
ludicrous array of colours, and consist mostly of crew- and v-neck
sweaters as well as a few hats and accessories.

[Power of My People](https://powerofmypeople.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. A line of casual to semi-formal garments for men
and women. Their ethos is of a "not quite unisex" bent, with many of the
women's styles borrowing heavily from menswear in terms of style and
cut. They make a lot of button down shirts in a few different fits for
men and women, as well as some tees, and accessories.

[Province of Canada](http://provinceofcanada.com)

Presumably made in Toronto, ON. Casual clothing for men and women,
consisting of tees (short and long sleeve), sweats, hats, and
accessories. Many of the sweats are unisex. They use ringspun cotton for
their tees, which makes them lighter, softer, and more durable.

[Red Canoe](http://redcanoebrands.com/)

Some items made in Canada, not sure where. Casual men's, women's, and
children's clothing celebrating cultural institutions like bush planes,
the CBC, and the RCAF. Their made in Canada items consist mostly of
t-shirts, with a few sweaters, jackets, and hats.

[Sitka Surf Company](https://sitka.ca/)

Not sure where in Canada they're made, but the company is based in
Victoria, BC. Far from being just a surfwear company, Sitka makes a wide
range of apparel for men and women, from button down shirts to sweats to
outerwear to a small selection of denim. Almost all of their products
are made in Canada, and most that aren't will be in the future, as the
company is making a big effort to move all production within the
country. A few items will still be made in the United States.

[StrateRazor](https://www.straterazor.ca/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Casual work-wear for adults. Sweats, baseball
shirts, and tees geared towards comfort and easy fits, for long work
days and casual wear.

Strong & Free Emblem

Headquartered in Saint John, NB, not sure what city they're made in.
Graphic t-shirts and sweatshirts, as well as several bags, including a
leather shoulder bag. Most products 100% made in Canada.

[Tristan](http://www.tristanstyle.com/en/)

Headquartered in MontrÃ©al, QC. Alternatively (or formerly?) named
Tristan & Iseut. Broad array of clothing and accessories for men and
women. Some items made in Canada, but not sure where the MiC stuff is
actually manufactured. One manufacturing facility is located in
Cookshire, QC, but this location only makes blazers and jackets.

[Twenty Tees](http://twentytees.com)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Oddly enough this is not a Canadian company, but
an American one, with headquarters in Newport Beach, CA and an office in
NYC. But they manufacture in a vertically-integrated factory in
MontrÃ©al. This might be because the founder, David Helwani, is from
MontrÃ©al. Apparently the mills owned by this fellow do a lot of work for
Alice & Olivia, Rag & Bone, Alexander Wang, and Versace. Twenty Tees are
a bit hard to categorize, because their women's and men's lines are so
different in aesthetic. The men's apparel is more streetwear-influenced,
featuring mostly tees, sweats, and hoodies. The women's wear on the
other hand is a bit more grown up, incorporating solid colours and
simple patterns into their dresses and skirts, while also offering tees,
tanks, and sweats in interesting cuts, and sometimes jackets and
blazers.

[Two Birds Apparel](http://www.twobirdsapparel.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Simple garments, generally made from organic
fabrics, Includes tees, sweaters/cardigans, and occasionally pants and
shorts. Mostly unisex.

[Wings + Horns](http://www.wingsandhorns.com/))

Made in Vancouver, BC. High-end men\'s clothing and accessories, founded
by Craig Atkinson of CYC Design Corp, and designed primarily by Raif
Adelberg (at least originally). An urban-centered look, with a
Japanese-influenced minimalist feel and considerable breadth of product
lines. Frequent collaborations with other brands (New Balance, Adidas,
PORTER, and so on), resulting in products like limited edition backpacks
and shoes. They regularly make everything from accessories to footwear
to daily essentials.

[Workshop](https://boysco.com/collections/workshop)

100% made in North America, some items made in Canada (probably in
Vancouver, BC). In-house brand of Boys Co., a Vancouver-based clothing
store. The line mostly consists of tees, crew-necks, and button-down
shirts, while also featuring some sweats. Aesthetic bears resemblance to
Outclass, Wings + Horns, and Bon Vivant.

4. WOMEN'SAPPAREL.
==================

![](media/image14.jpeg){width="1.9708333333333334in"
height="2.2256944444444446in"}![](media/image15.jpeg){width="3.265895669291339in"
height="2.2256944444444446in"}![](media/image16.png){width="2.2256944444444446in"
height="2.2256944444444446in"}

[Act Three Apparel](https://actthreeapparel.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Dresses with a nostalgic feel, featuring lace
trims, floral patterns, and an overall old-fashioned vibe to them.
Founded in 2015 by Sarah Marland.

[Adhesif Clothing](http://www.adhesifclothing.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Founded by designer (and native MontrÃ©alaise)
Melissa Ferreira. Clothing for women with emphasis on sustainable and
recycled fabrics.

[Allison Wonderland](http://www.allisonwonderlandshop.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Two brands, Pillar and Allison Wonderland, made
by the eponymous designer. Everyday wear for women.

[Amanda Maria](https://amandamariafashion.com/)

Made in Canada, possibly in Toronto, ON. Forward-thinking and almost
aggressively minimalist women's apparel. Solid and block solours with
very clean silhouettes.

[Amanda Moss](http://www.amandamoss.ca/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Casual to business-casual dresses and tops for
women. Patterns are fairly simple, and the cuts on some of the more
recent pieces are very minimalist, again espousing a vaguely Japanese
aesthetic. Others are more typical, but generally design flourishes, if
present at all, are very understated, while the solid colours tend to be
fairly vibrant.

[Anu Raina](http://anuraina.squarespace.com/)

Made in Oakville, ON. Fancy women's scarves made of that slightly sheer
sort of material. Generally quite flashy designs, and she even makes one
with a map of the TTC subway on it.

[Betina Lou](https://shop.betinalou.com/en/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Most garments have a clean, minimalist look, with
some items (dresses primarily) incorporating louder patterms. Dresses,
jeans, tops and skirts, along with a plethora of other products (not all
of which are made by them). They also feature accessories and jewelry
from a number of designers, both local and international, and their
online store stocks some made-in-MontrÃ©al menswear such as [Of Sharks
and Men](http://www.ofsharksandmen.com/) and
[Marmier](https://marmier.ca/).

[Birds of North America](http://www.birdsofnorthamerica.ca/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Founded by Victoria, BC native Hayley Gibson in
2007. Prrimarily dresses, but in the past they have also made onesies,
as well as separate pants and blouse combos. The garments have a more
youthful feel to them, frequently using graphic prints and some of them
having old-timey elements like collars and lots of buttons on dresses.
Some garments are more stark in appearance, with a sort of 1970s vibe to
them.

[Brenda BeddomÃ©](http://www.shopbrendabeddome.com/)

Probably made in Toronto, ON. Comfort-focused fashions for women. A
fairly grown up look, but without looking dated. Fabrics seem to
incorporate stretch quite frequently, similar to Fig (see below), to
allow freedom of movement. Their look is somewhere in between yoga
enthusiast and young mother. Which is not a bad thing.

[Cecile BÃ©nac Knitwear](http://www.cecilebenacknitwear.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Women\'s apparel, primarily sweaters and shirts,
made from unusual fabrics.

[Chloe Angus](https://www.chloeangus.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Women's wear heavily featuring Haida influence,
and artwork predominantly done by a fellow named Clarence Mills, who has
collaborated with Chloe since the inception of the brand. Mostly casual
wear, including a number of button wraps that are worn sort of like a
cross between a shawl and a cardigan.

[Cinder+Smoke](http://www.cinderandsmoke.com/)

Made in Edmonton, AB. Women's clothing featuring a vintage sort of feel,
almost thrift shop-ish. Lots of vibrant patterns. Garments range from
tees to dresses and skirts.

[CrÃ©ations Encore](http://www.creationsencore.com/en/)

Allegedly made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Could not be verified but many sources
suggest this is the case. Some products are tagged as "Made in Canada"
on their website, but the tagging is inconsistent, which could simply be
human error. Women's clothing and accessories, including dresses,
shirts, bags, hats, etc. Many of the products feature graphic prints,
interesting patterns, and diverse colour combinations.

[Dagg and Stacey](http://daggandstacey.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Founded in 2001, with their first collection
released in 2003. Women's clothing, of a fairly casual bent. Newest
collection features very clean aesthetic with some interesting features.
Dresses in soft fabrics with a sash resembling an *obi*, flared cropped
pants, extended button-down shirts. Some pieces have a more androgynous
look while others are more traditionally feminine, helped along by some
simple prints here and there. Typical of women's lines, the S/S lines
tend to be more colourful. Past lines have had a less androgynous look.

[Delvyn van Loon](https://www.devlynvanloon.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Minimalist and modern women's fashions, from
sweater dresses to outerwear. Generally monochrome colour palette (grey,
black, white) with an oversized, drapey look being the norm. All items
are made to order.

Dorothea Knitting Mills, Inc.

Made in Toronto, ON. DKM is the parent company of Parkhurst, Cotton
Country, and Outdoor Edition, all sub-companies that sell knitted
clothing and accessories for women. While about 25% of their production
has been offshored, the majority of their products are still made here.
They are best known for the Parkhurst brand. All of them are
retail-only, and the website requires a name and address to get a list
of stockists, but keep an eye out and you might see them in the wild.

[Duffield Design](http://duffielddesign.ca/)

Made in Dunrobin, ON (technically part of Ottawa, ON). All designs made
by Megan Duffield, using eco-friendly fabrics, including many sourced
from within Canada. The brand also places a significant general emphasis
on sustainability. Casual wear from dresses to tops and leggings. Most
pieces seem to focus on freedom of movement and comfort.

[encircled](http://www.encircled.ca/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Women's lifestyle and sort-of-activewear brand.
Their signature piece is a really very interesting thing called the
"Chrysalis Cardi" which is basically a large piece of fabric with snaps
on it that can be transformed into a number of different garments
[depending on how you arrange
it](https://www.encircled.ca/pages/how-to-wear). The motivation behind
the brand is designing highly functional clothing with which you can "do
more will less", so many of their garments are re-arrangeable to be worn
a number of ways.

[Erdaine Knitwear](https://erdaine.ca/)

Based in Burnaby, BC, but unsure where in Canada they do their
manufacturing. Seamless knitwear for women, including sweaters,
long-sleeved shirts, cardigans, and shawls make up most of their product
line. Solid colours as a rule, generally in soft/muted tones.

[Eve Gravel](http://www.evegravel.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Eponymous brand of a designer from Saguenay, QC,
founded in 2002. Tops, dresses, and skirts, primarily. Garments feature
a lot of geometric patterns, and tend to be slightly androgynous-leaning
while still keeping feminine touches.

[Femme de Carriere](http://www.femmedecarriere.com/)

Likely made in QC, not sure where. Some made in Canada lines, similar to
Tristan and le ChÃ¢teau. Created in 1979, specializes in women\'s
workwear. Suits, standalone pieces, skirts, and dresses. It\'s a grab
bag - many pieces are for the older crowd, and many pieces are for the
mid-20\'s just starting out with her career crowd.

[FIG](http://www.figclothing.com/en/home/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Described as \"travel wear for women\". The theme
of their garments is comfort and ease of movement. They also make some
accessories. FIG also makes an effort not only to manufacture here, but
to source fabrics from Canada as well, and they frequently make use of
organic and eco-friendly fabrics in their pieces.

[Front Room](http://www.morefrontroom.com/)

Made in Calgary, AB. *Currently on indefinite hiatus due to health
issues of the owner.* Professional clothing (tops, mostly) designed for
women with larger busts. Founded in 2015.

[Gilmour Clothing](http://www.gilmourclothing.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Active- and casual-wear for women. They have a
wide product range, from true athletic wear to more dressed-up items,
and with a large selection of patterns and cuts. Many of their garments
are made using bamboo-based fabrics, like other lines mentioned here.

[Hoi Bo](https://www.hoibo.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Bags, jewelry, and clothing for women. The label
espouses a sort of rugged austerity in its design, with solid colours
and unusual cuts to its garments. The jewelry has a rough-hewn look to
it for the most part, and the bags are very reductionist in appearance,
though many consist of unusual shapes or have design features that make
them stand out. Founded in 2012 by Sarra Tang, and operating in
Toronto's Distillery District ever since.

[Horses Atelier](http://www.horsesatelier.com)

Made in Toronto, ON. Ludicrously expensive women's fashions, ranging
from "smoking dresses" (an interesting and intriguing response to the
smoking jacket) to *obis* (the thick, heavy sashes worn to hold
*kimono*s in place).

[Jennifer Glasgow](https://www.jenniferglasgowdesign.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Jumpsuits, dresses, tops, and pants for women.
Largely made from organic fabrics, Jennifer's designs draw inspiration
from artists like Emily Carr and Mark Rothko. Solid and block colours
with understated patterns that flatter the body without being
restrictive or tight.

[Jessica Rose](https://shop.jessicarosedesign.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Founded in 2009. Ladies' clothing, primarily
dresses in a number of different cuts and patterns. Range goes from
decidedly casual to fairly professional, though nothing crazy formal.
Emphasis on versatility between climates, packability for those who
travel, and freedom of movement.

[Joseph Ribkoff](http://www.josephribkoff.com/)

Mostly made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Joseph Ribkoff is a Montreal-based designer
for woman\'s workwear that began his work in 1957. His pieces are
designed and manufactured in Montreal and can be found in more upscale
boutiques. They are mostly tops and dresses. Pieces tend to be made of
stretchier material and colorful patterns that are geared toward older
professionals. A store locator is available from the website.

[Judith and Charles](http://www.judithandcharles.com/)

Made in either Montreal, QC or Toronto, ON. Womenswear retailer whose
tag line is \"Tailored with love in Canada\". Similar aesthetic to
Smythe, but with a broader range of products, covering less formal
attire as well as formalwear such as suits, blazers, and pants. The
"Inspire" section of their website is very interesting, encompassing
photography, short bios of influential designers and women, and even
soundscapes.

[Kania](https://www.kania.ca/)

Manufactured in multiple cities, designed in Ottawa, ON. Luxury
sweatshirts for women. Everything from standard zip up hoodies to
varsity jacket-inspired designs and even a few dresses. Relatively
simple design but with lots of bright colours and fabric patterns to
offset the clean lines. Founded in 2003 by Stacey Martin Bafi-Yeboa,
Kania means "light" in the Twi language found in Ghana, West Africa.

[KAZZ](https://www.kazzclothing.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Another women's label focused on the minimalist
aesthetic. Earth tones are dominant, and garments have very few details
present, with emphasis being on the overall shape more than ornaments or
small flourishes. Onesies, pants, tops, and dresses, as well as some
more tomboy-ish items including loose fitting button down shirts.

[Kim & Co.](http://www.kimco.ca/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Founded in 1988. Wide range of women's clothing
spanning casual to professional attire. Everything from cardigans to
skirts and pants. A mix of styles, including pretty busy/flashy prints
for dresses, while also including solid-coloured and fairly minimalist
shirts and pants. This brand is peculiarly active in the television
home-shopping scene, including TSC and QVC.

[KollontaÃ¯](http://www.kollontai.net)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Founded in 1998 by Gabrielle Tousignant, the brand
is nanmed after famous Russian feminist political figure Alexandra
Kollontai (ÐÐ»ÐµÐºÑÐ°ÌÐ½Ð´Ñ€Ð° ÐšÐ¾Ð»Ð»Ð¾Ð½Ñ‚Ð°ÌÐ¹) who helped to establish International
Women's Day. Large variety of garments, from lingerie to outerwear.
Patterns range from very minimalistic to very dynamic, with many
garments on the more muted side, featuring contrasting seams, buttons,
or stitching. The stock available line in their store is enormous (most
likely spanning several season releases) so dive in.

[Malorie Urbanovitch](http://urbanovitch.co/)

Probably made in Edmonton, AB. Women's fashions ranging from knitwear to
outerwear and accessories. Quite an interesting aesthetic, somewhere
between minimalist high fashion and almost quaint country style.

[Marigold](https://marigoldmtl.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Modern women's clothing, featuring interesting
patterns (some very cubist-looking) and an almost Japanese aesthetic in
some of their garments. Dresses, sweats, skirts, and blouses. Founded in
2014 by Marilyn Baril.

[MÃ©lissa Nepton](http://www.melissanepton.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Women's clothing with a modern yet not-too-formal
look. Clean lines and minimal patterns, comprising slacks, shirts of
various styles, jackets, and blouses.

[Meemoza](https://en.meemoza.ca/)

Presumably made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Casual styles for the ladies, and a few
items for men as well. Dresses, skirts, blouses, and cardigans in simple
patterns and cuts. Men's items are mostly shirts, including a couple of
sweaters, polos, and button-downs. Most styles say "tailored in Canada",
which is somewhat ambiguous, but the "About" section seems to imply that
the items are, in fact, made and altered in MontrÃ©al.

[Nicole Bridger](http://www.nicolebridger.com/)

90% of their products are made in Vancouver, BC. Women's clothing
company covering many bases, including jackets and blazers,
sweaters/cardigans, dresses, and even maternity wear. Nicole previously
partnered with lululemon to create their ecologically-focused brand
Oqoqo (now defunct), before striking out on her own.

[Obakki](https://www.obakki.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Founded in 2005 by Treana Peake. Elegand and
simple women's clothing from skirts to jackets and scarves. Obakki's
revenues support the operation and administrative costs of its
philanthropic counterpart, [the Obakki
Foundation](https://obakkifoundation.org/). The Foundation aims to
provide better access to drinking water and education in Africa.

[Ovate](http://ovate.ca/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Sleek, modern clothing for women. On quite a
fashion-forward tip, withy very minimal aesthetics and unusual cuts and
styling. They used to make menswear as well but they stopped a few years
ago. You can still occasionally find men\'s pieces on sites like
Grailed, but they\'re expensive to begin with and they\'re now limited
edition, so you do the math.

[Paloma Blanca](https://www.palomablanca.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Makers of wedding dresses since 1937, when the
company was founded as Blue Bird Dresses by Manny Bernstein. They now
have a worldwide presence, and make a huge variety of dresses ranging
from classic to modern and minimalist.

[Priory of Ten](http://www.priorypriory.com)

Designer now based in NYC, but items made in Canada, not sure where.
Austere and elegant women's clothing. Solid colours, very minimalist in
its appearance. Similar to Ovate in some ways. The brand was initially
an in-house brand for Vancouver clothing store Board of Trade, owned by
Eunice Quan and David Lin (now defunct). The founding designer is Mei
Liu, a Chinese-Canadian double Ã©migrÃ©e who now resides in New York,
formerly in Toronto.

[Rimpy Sahota](https://www.rimpysahota.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Everyday women's wear with a fashion forward
tilt. Playful patterns and bright colours much in evidence. They make
most of their garments using fabrics that are also made in Canada.

[Skinny Sweats](http://skinnysweats.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Like Muttonhead, this is a brand that openly
espouses the "slow design" principle, a response to the concept of fast
fashion. Founded by Adrienne Butikofer. Mostly designed with women in
mind, but their catalog has a few items that are unisex, such as
t-shirts and sweatshirts. The tone of their garments is decidedly
casual, but with enough flair to elevate them above the "crushing a pint
of B&J while watching Bridesmaids for the tenth time" echelon.

[Smoking Lily](https://smokinglily.com/)

Made in Victoria, BC. Women's wear primarily, but also featuring a few
kids' designs and a couple of t-shirts for men. All sewn and
silk-screened in Victoria. Their women's line encompasses blouses, tees,
skirts, dresses, and some accessories like shoulder bags. Fairly playful
and colourful designs as a rule, with the in-house silk-screening much
in evidence.

[Smythe](http://smythelesvestes.com/)

Not sure where made, but based in Toronto, ON. Apparel for women, with a
somewhat more professional and/or high fashion slant. The brand is
primarily known for their blazers, which feature interesting cuts and
patterns.

[Studio D](https://studiodianne.com/)

Made in Ottawa, ON. Casual clothes for women, leaning towards a more
mature crowd. Shawls, yoga pants, sweats, dresses, and tops. All with
fairly busy patterns as a rule. Studio D does "just in time"
manufacturing, meaning each garment is made to order for the client.

[Sunja Link](http://www.sunjalink.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Simple dresses for women. Made from Italian and
Japanese fabrics, the dresses (and occasionally other items) have a very
natural look to them, with few details and loose fits that make them
seem free-moving and easy to wear. Solid colours generally, and
lookbooks seem to enforce the association with natural colours and
textures.

[This is J](https://thisisj.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON, probably. Casual and loungewear line for women,
also featuring a number of child and baby garments as well. In
particular, they make jammers (pyjamas) for women and children. Garments
primarily made from bamboo fibre. They also make some accessories such
as scarves, knit hats, and headbands. Sister brand of [Harris
Loungewear](https://harrisloungewear.com/), a men's casual and
loungewear label.

[Tonia Debellis](https://toniadebellis.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Apparel and some outerwear with a decidedly
skiing-influenced look. Think aprÃ¨s ski at a chalet in Gstaat

[ValÃ©rie Dumaine](https://www.shopvaleriedumaine.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Simple and androgynous-leaning women's fashions.
Dresses, skirts, shorts, tops, jumpsuits, and blazers. Straddling the
line between casual and formal, the aesthetic bears some similarities to
brands like Jennifer Glasgow and Eve Gravel, but with ValÃ©rie's own
twist. Many of the tops, dresses, and jumpsuits tend to be
looser-fitting and boxier in construction. Founded in 2004.

[VÃ©ronique Milijkovitch](http://shop.miljkovitch.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. High-fashion women's clothing, including shirts,
dresses, and pants. Looks vary significantly from season to season, but
looser-fitting, drapey styles seem to be *de rigueur*.

[Vestige Story](https://www.vestigestory.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Miniamlist women's apparel with a preponderance
towards solid pastel colours and a somewhat old-fashioned cant to it.

[we3 Designs](http://www.we3.ca/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Women\'s clothing and accessories, simple pieces
with emphasis on sustainable fabrics. Established in 2007 by Glencora
Twigg, Jessica Vaira and Christine Hotton as an offshoot of their
clothing boutique twigg&hottie.

Work + Shop Boutique

Made in Regina, SK. Primarily women's fashions focusing on recycled and
upcycled material. Hand-made in a studio in Regina. They have a "Gents"
section on the website but it's currently devoid of products. Fashions
have a bit of a punk aesthetic, and include mostly tops such as tanks,
dresses, and denim jackets. They also have a small selection of
accessories.

5. MEN\'STAILORED&DRESSATTIRE.
==============================

![](media/image17.jpeg){width="2.589583333333333in"
height="2.2256944444444446in"}![](media/image18.jpeg){width="3.433333333333333in"
height="2.2256944444444446in"}![](media/image19.jpeg){width="1.4574004811898513in"
height="2.2233792650918636in"}

[Artvictus](http://www.artvictus.com/)

Headquartered in Mississauga, ON, garments made in multiple locations in
Canada. Custom-made dress shirts with lots of colour and fabric options,
at relatively reasonable prices. Their staple is the Oxford, but they
will make just about anything (with the one unfortunate exception being
dress shirts with Mandarin/banded collars).

[Ballin](http://www.ballin.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Makes of fine men's pants since 1946. Their
website features an extensive fashion dictionary which is actually quite
fascinating.

[Braemore Ties](http://www.braemoreties.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Established in 1937. As far as I know, all they
make are nice ties. Despite being up to date, their website is fairly
atrocious. It might be more worth your while to find stockists.

[Coppley](http://coppley.com)

Headquartered in Hamilton, ON, garments made elsewhere in Canada. Men\'s
suits and shirts at similar prices to brands like Samuelsohn. Founded in
1858 (!). Their company history makes some spurious claims to a \"family
crest\", despite this representing incorrect nomenclature, and the fact
that such a thing does not exist in Canadian or British heraldry (coats
of arms belong to individuals, not families, and are rarely made
hereditary).

[Dion Neckwear](http://www.dionneckwear.com)

Made in Toronto and Vaughan, ON. Ties and formal wear for men.

[Forsyth Shirts](http://www.careerapparel.ca/)

Possibly defunct. Made in Cambridge, ON. Founded in 1903. There were
many stories about them closing shop a few years ago. It\'s possible
that they only do commercial orders now. Their original website has a
\"copyright 2005\" blurb on it, but the website linked above seems up to
date. Their main business is the Oxford shirt in its many varieties.

[Jack Victor](http://www.jackvictor.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Founded in 1913. Suits and shirts for men, ranging
from formal to more casual cuts and styles. They source their fabrics
primarily from Italy.

[JP Tilford by
Samuelsohn](http://www.harryrosen.com/brand/j-p-tilford-by-samuelsohn)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. As the name implies, this is a second label under
the Samuelsohn umbrella, sold exclusively by Harry Rosen, and available
in their online shop. Expect similar styles as the parent brand.

[Lipson Shirtmakers](http://www.lipsonshirtmakers.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. A wide range of dress shirts and other button-down
styles in numerous cuts and fabrics. Founded in 1958 and featuring
rather distinct branding that involves a replica of Alexandre Dumas\'
sword.

[Made](http://madeclothing.ca/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Completely custom menswear. Walk in, throw some
ideas around, get a custom-bespoke suit from a wide variety of fabrics
and materials. Turnaround time is about 3-4 weeks.

[**Offal Goods**](http://offalgoods.bigcartel.com/)

Made in Edmonton, AB. Ties and accessories for men. Lots of interesting
designs, with ties generally of a more interesting "diamond" shape as
opposed to the flat-ended bowtie that is most commonly seen.

[Philip Sparks](http://philipsparks.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON, in the Junction neighbourhood. Shop used to be
located on Foxley street just off of Ossington. Tailored and bespoke
formalwear, as well as more off-the-rack products for everyday wear.
Retail only. They also make some products for women, including outerwear
(or they did, the last time I checked).

[Samuelsohn](http://www.samuelsohn.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Founded by an emigrÃ© from New York in 1923. High
quality suits and shirts, ranging from classic to modern, rakish looks.

[S. Cohen Inc.](http://www.scoheninc.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Founded by a Russian Ã©migrÃ© named Benjamin Cohen
with the help of his son Saul. Good quality for their price point, and
they have an excellent made-to-measure program. The "high performance
gallery" on their website is pretty hilarious.

[Vonella Clothing](http://vonellaclothing.com/)

Made in Windsor, ON. Suits cut, sewn and tailored by master tailor Mike
Vonella. A wide range of premium fabrics and an emphasis on personal,
bespoke service for discerning gentlemen.

6. STREETWEAR.
==============

![](media/image20.jpeg){width="2.7569444444444446in"
height="2.2256944444444446in"}![](media/image21.jpeg){width="2.2256944444444446in"
height="2.2256944444444446in"}![](media/image22.jpeg){width="2.4960629921259843in"
height="2.2244094488188977in"}

[4 Horsemen Supplies](http://www.fourhorsemen.ca/)

Made in Victoria, BC. In-house line of the upscale 4 Horsemen boutique.
Streetwear with something of a high-fashion influence. They also make
some accessories and household items.

[The Escape Movement](http://theescapemovement.com)

Made in North Bay, ON. Streetwear consisting primarily of solid colours
and simple patterns (like stripes or bisected two-colour garments), with
a rather nice feather logo. They make men's and women's clothing. The
men's line consists mostly of tees, tank tops, and sweatshirts. The
women's line is similar, and has a few accessories, as well as
leggings/pants, and leg warmers.

[Get Fresh
Company](file:///G:\Google%20Drive\Clothing%20Research\(https:\shop.getfreshcompany.com\)

Some products made in Toronto, ON. Products ranging from solid colour,
minimal pieces (their Barebones collection, for example) to more
in-your-face branding with some pieces resembling the legendary Hood by
Air brand out of NYC.

[Illustrated Example](http://www.illustratedexample.ca)

Made in Vancouver, BC and other locations within Canada. Clothing line
owned by the same folks as Livestock, a chain of clothing stores across
Canada, started in Toronto. Streetwear with a techwear influence,
featuring a lot of waterproof and breathable fabrics, and an emphasis on
functionality. Vaguely similar in aesthetic to Arc'teryx Veilance and
wings + horns (see below) but more accessibly priced and without the
almost ascetic minimalism that Veilance espouses. Lots of outerwear,
t-shirts, sweats, dress shirts, and accessories. Many of their fabrics
come from Japan, some are from Ontario (possibly from Roopa Knitting
Mills).

[The Legends League](http://www.thelegendsleague.com)

Made in Toronto, ON. No-nonsense modern streetwear with a slight varsity
vibe and small flourishes in design.

[Nine Vancouver](http://www.ninevancouver.com/)

Some products made in Richmond, BC. Small releases of tees, sweats, and
especially hats in interesting fabrics. Releases lately consist
primarily of accessories like hats and socks. Having ordered from them a
couple times, their shipping times can be quite long due to a relocation
of the label head to Singapore. Most items are not made in Canada any
more, but I believe their hats still are.

[The Nowhere Fast Brand](http://www.nowherefastbrand.com/)

Probably made in Edmonton, AB. Athletic-ish apparel including baseball
jerseys, sweats, tees, 5-panel hats, and tank tops. Minimal branding, as
a rule, with occasional text on sweats and tees. Founded by Wes
O\'Driscoll.

[NTHNG](http://www.nthng.net/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Their signature product is the \"Perfect Tee\", an
elongated tee shirt with raw seams and a loose fit. A good general
indicator of their modern streetwear aesthetic. Casual streetwear,
generally tees, sweats, jackets, and occasionally shorts/pants. They
incorporate a more direct southeast Asian influence into their gear,
while at the same time using the Futhark (Viking alphabet) for their
principal branding.

[October's Very Own](https://www.octobersveryown.com/)

Some items made in Canada. Drake's brand. Mostly sweats and tees.

[Raised by Wolves](http://raisedbywolves.ca/)

Headquartered in MontrÃ©al, QC (formerly Ottawa, ON), garments made in
various locations by different manufacturers, almost always in Canada (a
few are made in USA, and recently, they very unfortunately started
stocking underwear and socks made in China). Very popular with the
streetwear crowd, sometimes half-seriously called the Canadian Supreme.
Their line consists entirely of single-season releases, so every product
is essentially limited edition. They tend to do a mixture of
in-your-face branding and more subtle pieces, as well as collaborations
with brands like Ebbets Field Flannels, Vans, Filling Pieces, and so on.
Broad mixture of apparel and accessories, even socks and incense.

[The Feral](http://www.sonsofodin.me)

:Likely manufactured in Toronto, ON. Dark and solid colour palettes
dominate, with their line encompassing sweaters, outerwear, and basics
like t-shirts with unusual design flourishes.

[Supreme](http://www.supremenewyork.com/)

Some items made in Vancouver, BC. NYC streetwear brand, oddly enough
some of their garments are made in Canada. Legendary hype surrounds this
company. Favourite of some of the fellas in Odd Future. Where
applicable, made in Vancouver, BC by the same manufacturer as Wings +
Horns and Reigning Champ. It is possible that they no longer manufacture
there, but as far as I know they do.

7. ATHLETIC&SPORTSWEAR.
=======================

![](media/image23.jpeg){width="2.527360017497813in"
height="2.223611111111111in"}![](media/image24.jpeg){width="2.1535433070866143in"
height="2.2244094488188977in"}![](media/image25.jpeg){width="2.8149606299212597in"
height="2.2244094488188977in"}

[Barbarian Rugby Wear](http://www.barbarian.com/)

Made in Kitchener, ON. As the name implies, they make rugby-focused
clothing including more casual, cotton rugby shirts (those stripy,
collared ones), as well as more modern sportswear (for people who
actually play rugby). They also make socks, shorts, and a few other
items.

[Bather](https://bather.com/) Trunk Co.

Made in Toronto, ON. Swimwear for men, in two main styles: surf and swim
trunks. Lots of different patterns and colours, and they've also done
collaborations with a few companies (Tuck Shop Trading Co., for
instance) to produce swimwear with other designs and branding.

[Dear Li'l Devas](https://www.dearlildevas.com/)

Made in Markham, ON. Loose-fitting yoga clothing for women and men,
along with a few accessories. Garments frequently feature bamboo fabric.
They also make some cloaks for women, as well as some skirts and
dresses.

[Ionik](https://www.ioniksport.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Sister brand of
[Blank](https://www.boutiqueblank.com/) (see [men's and women's
apparel](#menswomensapparel.) section). Sportswear for men, women, and
children. They make a decent range of tennis apparel (hats, skirts,
dresses, shirts, and so on), along with the regular fare of tees,
sweats, shorts, and even some underwear. No English site, unfortunately,
so brush off your dictionary. Some items appear not to be made in Quebec
(hats, for example are "designed and decorated" within the province),
and are probably not made in Canada, but most other things are.

[J76 Athletic Wear](http://www.j76cw.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. They have a second line called Leostar Athletica.
Stretchy yoga-type clothing for women. Lots of leggings, sports bras,
and so on. They also make a substantial variety of more general casual
clothing under the J76 brand. They also have a limited range of men's
styles, consisting of a few sweats and a jacket.

[Karma](https://karmaathletics.com)

Made in Vancouver, BC. More activewear for women, spanning weight
lifting, running, yoga, and loungewear. Products range from sports bras
to dresses and pants. The actual workout gear uses a lot of patterns,
but the aprÃ¨s and casual wear general leans towards the sort of
drapey-fit solid colour garments currently in vogue.

[Keylime](http://www.keylimecanada.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Activewear for adults and children. Founded in
2007. Their only two retail locations are in Edmonton and Sherwood Park,
but they have an online store as well. Tees, long-sleeves, pants,
tights, and even some underwear. They also stock accessories from other
brands in their online store.

[Michi](http://michiny.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Women's activewear. Founded in 2010 by Michelle
Watson, who previously designed activewear for Ralph Lauren. I had a
hard time categorizing this one, since it's ostensibly activewear but
brings such a high-fashion influence to it that it looks like fancy
dress. Very unusual cuts and silhouettes, but always focusing on freedom
of movement and the ability to stay cool. They make everything from
underwear (where they got their start) to jackets.

[Minnow Bathers](http://minnowbathers.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Bathing suits for women. One dollar from each sale
is donated to the Save Our Seas Foundation.

[National Athletic Goods](http://www.nationalathleticgoods.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC by the same company as Homespun Knitwear. High-end
sweats and shirts inspired by vintage sportswear from the 1930s and
1940s. Similar to Homespun, it is not available directly through the
manufacturer, only from resellers/stockists.

[Nettle's Tale](https://nettlestale.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Swimwear for women of all shapes and sizes. Suits
designed to allow mixing and matching of tops with bottoms. 10% of all
profits from each swimsuit design are donated to charities picked by the
models on the website. Their webstore also features products from other
made in Canada and made in USA brands.

[Niko Apparel Systems](http://nikoapparel.ca/) / Nine-O

Made in Hamilton, ON. Top of the line sportswear, specifically uniforms
and team wear. Services like bonding, laser cutting, sublimation, and
embroidery. Founded in 1996, this seems to be the parent company of
[Nine-O](http://nine-o.com/), which is the name actually printed on the
garments at the end of the day. Niko is the custom side of the business,
where you can design uniforms using their broad range of services.
Nine-O has ready-to-wear lines and while they don't have an online shop,
they do have a store locator.

[OÃ¶m](http://www.oom.ca/en/)

Made in QuÃ©bec (likely MontrÃ©al). An activewear company with a strong
cyclist influence, OÃ¶m makes clothing out of alternative and more
sustainable fabrics for men, women, and babies. Their women's line is a
bit more broad, encompassing pants, dresses, and leggings, while the
men's offerings cover primarily t-shirts, long-sleeves, and jackets.

[Public Myth](http://shop.publicmyth.ca/)

Made mostly in Vancouver, BC, sometimes elsewhere in North America.
Women's lifestyle and active/sportswear line, founded in 2007. Shorts,
sweats, tank-tops, tees, tights, etc. Not sure if it's season-specific,
but their clothing seems generally geared towards warmer climates and/or
indoor sports or gyms. They have a lot of tights and sports bras in wild
colours and prints, but also more basic solid-colour garments. They also
use alternative fabrics like bamboo, and something called "Supplex".

[Prana Vida](https://www.pranavidastyle.com/)

Made in Winnipeg, MB. Primarily graphic leggings for women and babies,
but also some tanks and tees as well.

[Reigning Champ](http://www.reigningchamp.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC by the same company as Wings + Horns. Primarily
focused on athletic wear (including boxing robes, interestingly enough),
but they also make more everyday pieces like jackets/outerwear, and
hats. Seasons usually offer a number of core garments that repeat in
successive years, but with seasons often having an individual focused
colour palette. RC are known for the exceptionally high quality of their
fleece garments.

[RYU Apparel](https://ryu.com/)

Some items made in Vancouver, BC. Technical athletic wear for men and
women. Some of their sweats and core items are made in Vancouver, some
are made elsewhere in Canada. A lot of their stretch gear and women's
styles are imported, They also make some bags and outerwear, the
majority of which seem to be imported. They have manufacturing info for
each garment, check under "fabric & innovation".

[Seed Yoga](https://theseedstore.ca/)

Made in Calgary, AB. Yoga-inspired clothing (pants, shorts, tees, and
long-sleeved tops) frequently made from hemp/cotton blends. Their
company's goal is to have 100% of their clothing made using local hemp
crops by the year 2020. Seed was founded in 2014 by Blake Ward after a
successful Kickstarter campaign.

[Str/ke Mvmnt (Strike Movement)](https://strike-mvmnt.ca/)

Most items made in Vancouver, BC. Another of the makers of
technically-influenced athletic wear leaning towards leisurewear. Lots
of sweats and tees, including some less common garments like rugger
shirts, as well as raglan-sleeve baseball shirts. They made a name for
themselves with their shoe line as well (in particular the Chill Pill),
which are nice, but most likely not made in Canada.

[Strongbody Apparel](https://www.strongbodyapparel.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Hats, t-shirts, shorts, and other activewear for
men, often featuring odour-fighting technology. They began from a
Kickstarter campaign, and are using the same platform to expand their
product line.

[Terrafrog](http://www.terrafrog.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Founded in 2007 by Cori and Bobbi Windsor, two
Sherwood Park, AB-born sisters. The garments are designed in Alberta and
it would seem that the manufacture is contracted out to another
organization. Activewear for women, primarily for running and yoga.
Fabrics frequently consist of recycled materials.

[Todd Snyder x Champion](http://www.toddsnyder.com/collections/champion)

Made in Canada, not sure where exactly. If I had to guess I would
venture that it's made by CYC in Vancouver. A collaboration between
well-known USA-based Champion athletic gear and New York-based designer
(and Iowa native) Todd Snyder. This seems to be an ongoing collaboration
as opposed to a one-off release, and consists of tees and sweats with
more gregarious designs.

[Tonic Active](https://www.tonicactive.ca/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Women's active wear. They use an impressive array
of fabrics and make clothing designed for yoga, tennis, running, and
even everyday wear.

[Zen Nomad](https://zennomad.ca/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Clothing primarily for women (but also featuring a
decent range of products for men), clearly influenced by yoga and
dancing. All garments seem to centre on freedom of movement and comfort.
Most use organic or otherwise eco-friendly fabrics (such as bamboo).

8. OUTERWEAR.
=============

![](media/image26.jpeg){width="2.2244094488188977in"
height="2.2244094488188977in"}![](media/image27.jpeg){width="3.0274726596675414in"
height="2.223611111111111in"}![](media/image28.jpeg){width="2.2244094488188977in"
height="2.2244094488188977in"}

[Arc\'teryx
Veilance](http://veilance.arcteryx.com/Home.aspx?language=EN)

Made in North Vancouver, BC. High-end techwear and urban-oriented
outerwear. Less rugged-looking and very minimalist, compared to their
typical winter/mountaineering products. Some of Arc'teryx's regular line
is also made in Canada, but only a small fraction.

[Arctic Bay](https://arctic-bay.ca/)

Not sure where made. Likely headquartered in Toronto, ON, possibly made
there as well. Premium parkas for adults and children, featuring 725
fill goose down and Canadian-origin futs (beaver and coyote, most
frequently). They also make fut hats, gloves, and tuques, but with less
information about the sourcing of the fur and where they're
manufactured. Proceed with caution.

[Arctic North](http://www.arcticnorth.ca/)

Probably made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Fur-lined parkas for men and women.
Similar aesthetic to Canada Goose.

[Baffin](http://www.baffin.com/default.asp)

Some products made in Canada, most likely in Stoney Creek (Hamilton),
ON. Founded in 1997, Baffin makes outerwear and apparel for extreme
conditions, including jackets, boots, and a variety of thermal layers
including socks and underwear. Not all production is in Canada, but the
company has commitments to fair labour practices, involvements with
charity organizations, and does strive to produce as much as possible
here at home. They also make industrially-oriented products, including
things like CSA safety shoes.

[Canada Goose](http://www.canada-goose.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON and Winnipeg, MB. Founded in Toronto in 1957.
Favourite of actual arctic explorers and trust fund brats with names
like Becky and Chad the world over. Legendary warmth and quality, not
much intro needed really. If you have \$700+ to spend on a jacket,
chances are you'll at least glance at one of these.

[Chlorophylle](http://www.chlorophylle.net/)

Headquartered in Quebec, probably in Chicoutimi. Activewear and
outerwear for adults and children. Some items made in Canada, though I
get the impression that most are not. Very good quality from what I know
about them, but of course check the labels.

[Climate Technical Gear
(Sevaen)](https://sevaen-by-climate-gear.myshopify.com/)

Made in Dartmouth, NS. Hardcore outerwear for jobs that face cold
temperatures, rain, and other extreme conditions. Thermal and waterproof
garments, high-vis, and even personal protective equipment for medical
applications.

[CMFR (Cold Manufactured)](http://www.cmfrcanada.com/)

Made in Winnipeg, MB. Winter jackets featuring down and fur, exceptional
quality. Similar price point as Canada Goose, but without the branding
or populism. Minimalist looks with solid colours and an emphasis on
functionality while keeping things sleek and sharp.

[Ironhead](https://www.ironhead.com/)

Made primarily in Toronto, ON, with some goods made in the United
States. Athletics-inspired outerwearm, for the most part. They
specialize in things like letterman and bomber jackets, as well as
longer coats and also make some casualwear for men. They supply jackets
and apparel to a number of professional sports teams, primarily hockey.

[Johnny Yiu](http://johnnyyiu.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. More parkas, predominantly for women, but they also
have two men's styles. Slightly more "frou frou" than brands like Canada
Goose, definitely more of a wealthy suburbanite look compared to the
stripped down functionality of other brands.

[Kanuk](https://www.kanuk.com/en)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Founded in the 1970s, Kanuk makes winter coats and
warm accessories (scarves, hats). They also make lighter outerwear
seasonally.

Wully Outerwear

Made in Toronto, ON. Formerly known as Mammoth Outerwear. A company
resulting from a successful Kickstarter campaign. Performance outerwear
designed to withstand Canadian winters. Every jacket sold contributes
\$10 to the Association for the Protection of Fur-bearing Animals. Free
shipping on orders within Canada.

[Mission Workshop](http://missionworkshop.com/)

Waterproof outerwear made in Vancouver, BC. This is a San
Francisco-based company that got its start making bags for bike
messengers and other urban cyclists. They still make a range of
excellent bags (almost all of their stuff is made in SF), but have been
expanding into other categories of apparel. They now make pants, shirts,
and a range of waterproof outerwear, the latter of which is made in
Vancouver.

[Moose Knuckles](http://www.mooseknucklescanada.com/)

Some items allegedly made in Winnipeg, MB. Moose Knuckles is another
brand making conspicuously-branded parkas for the Canadian winter. They
have been accused recently of falsifying or exaggerating their made in
Canada claims by none other than the Competition Bureau of Canada (see
link
[here](http://www.competitionbureau.gc.ca/eic/site/cb-bc.nsf/eng/04035.html)).
The CEO admitted in April that not all of their jackets are made here
(see link
[here](https://www.thestar.com/business/2016/04/27/moose-knuckles-rapped-over-made-in-canada-claims.html)),
with some being made in Vietnam. Their website does not provide any
information about where each specific garment was made, but does have a
lot of information about their domestic factories and how many Canadians
they employ. Proceed with caution and read the tags.

[Mountain Equipment Co-op](http://www.mec.ca/Main/home.jsp)

Headquartered in Vancouver, BC. Some items manufactured in various
locations around Canada. Legendary Canadian company that has its own
line of products, and sells things made by others. Everything from
ultralight camping gear to fuzzy socks. Only some items are made in
Canada, but you can filter for it on their webstore.

[OSC Cross](http://www.osccross.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Stylish and functional outerwear featuring
goose/duck down, shearling wool, and other classic cold-weather
materials. They also make some sweaters and accessories like beanies.
Their products have a lifetime warranty for craftsmanship.

[Pajar](http://www.pajar.com/ca_en/)

Heritage line made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Most other products made overseas.
Pajar primarily makes winter gear and outerwear, including boots, shoes,
and coats.

[Quartz Nature](http://www.quartznature.com/en/aboutus/)

Made in Sainte-Hyacinthe, QC. Founded in 1997, Quartz makes parkas, and
only parkas. They have several varieties, but all are crafted for harsh
winters with fur lined hoods and lots of insulation.

[Skookum Brand](http://www.skookumbrand.com/)

Made in Dawson City, YT. Parkas for seriously cold weather. Manufactured
by a different company, known as Northern Garments Inc. Jackets can be
customized in a number of ways including many different colours,
different cuts for men and women, and different lengths of the same
jacket. They currently have three models available, all of which feature
fut-lined hoods.

[Taiga Works](https://www.taigaworks.ca/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. A Canadian outerwear and camping/outdoors
equipment company, specializing in down products. Jackets, bags,
sleeping bags, tents, and more. They have a rather outdated website
design, but their products are apparently top-notch. They got into a bit
of hot water a number of years ago when they published a tribute to a
Holocaust denier in their newsletter, and they have some unusual
articles still published there, but on the whole they seem like a solid
company.

Wild North Apparel

Made in Oakville, ON. More parkas for men and women. Not a huge number
of styles, but they run the gamut from short-length parkas to longer
heavier coats, balancing style and functionality. The heavier ones are
plainly harder wearing, but the smaller parkas (and most of the women's
line) seem targeted at city dwellers, for the most part.

[Westcomb](http://westcomb.com/)

Designed and manufactured in Vancouver, BC. Fleece, outerwear, and
athletic apparel often geared towards winter activities, for men and
women. They also have garments for city dwellers and milder weather.
Features very high quality fabrics, including Schoeller technical
fabrics (made in Switzerland), similar to some of the Mission Workshop
pieces.

9. LEATHER&SHOES.
=================

![](media/image29.jpeg){width="2.5511811023622046in"
height="2.2244094488188977in"}![](media/image30.jpeg){width="2.7125in"
height="2.223611111111111in"}![http://cdn5.snobessentials.com/sgmwp/wp-content/uploads/images2009/m0851\_FALL%202009\_saddlebag.jpg](media/image31.jpeg){width="2.2244094488188977in"
height="2.2244094488188977in"}

[Alberta Boot Company](http://www.albertaboot.com/)

Made in Calgary, AB. Founded in 1978. Hand-made cowboy and western boots
for the discerning gentleman or lady. Alberta's sole western boot
manufactuer.

[Anfibio](http://www.bottesanfibio.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Founded in 1968 as Chaussures DeLuca, Anfibio now
makes waterproof winter boots, primarily out of leather. They have a
great deal of information about their brand, history, and manufacturing
techniques on their website. They make a wide variety of boots for men
and women, ranging from rugged to stylish, all of them waterproof. They
make shoes up to size 19.

[Boulet Boots](http://www.bouletboots.com/)

Made in St.-Tite, QC. Boots for adults and children. Established in
1933, Boulet is known primarily for making western/cowboy boots, oddly
enough. They also make work boots, motorcycle boots, and a variety of
styles (again, mostly western and cowboy) for women and children.

[Canada West Boots](http://www.canadawestboots.com/)

Made in Winnipeg, MB. Oddly enough also founded in 1978. Makers of
western boots for men and women, as well as work and service boots.
Parent company of Brahma Boots. No online or direct sales, retail only.

[la Canadienne](http://www.lacanadienneshoes.com/)

Headquartered in MontrÃ©al, QC. Manufactured in MontrÃ©al (presumably) and
sometimes in Italy. Women\'s leather shoes and boots, outerwear, and
accessories.

[Clo's General Leather Co.](https://www.closgeneral.com/)

Made in Edmonton, AB. Handmade leather goods from duffel bags to wallets
to aprons and pet accessories.

[Creature Leather](https://www.creatureleather.com/)

Made in Saskatoon, SK. Leather bags (duffels, backpacks, handbags),
wallets, belts, and travel accessories made by one man in Canada's
prairies.

[Dayton Boots](http://www.daytonboots.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Founded in 1946, the company had a reputation for
making boots that were often involved in fights, due to the bellicose
natures of their owners (loggers, motorcyclists, and shitkicker
Canadians). This led to their being banned in some establishments. More
recently, they became somewhat notorious for a collaboration with Wings
+ Horns to make pre-distressed service boots. Decent range of styles for
men and women. Made-to-order is their bread and butter, and they
frequently have one-off styles.

[Himel Brothers Leather Company](http://himelbros.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON from internationally-sourced leather. Ruinously
expensive but beautiful leather jackets and some accessories such as
bags and wallets. Very high quality.

[Hides in Hand](http://www.hidesinhand.com/)

Made in Rockwood, ON, not far from Guelph. Leather products including
footwear, gloves, hats, bags, and accessories. They sell a lot of
moccasins from leathers such as moose, deer, and bison hide. The company
was once called Marzo Glove, and is essentially a holdover from an era
when the community around Acton was known for its leather production.
Very interestingly they place an emphasis on using leather that is
sourced and tanned in Canada, which is exceptionally rare. From their
website it actually seems like they do some (or possibly all) of the
tanning themselves.

[Kamik](http://www.kamik.com/)

Made primarily in MontrÃ©al, QC, with some in Ontario, and New Hampshire
(USA). Footwear company founded in 1898 that produces things like winter
boots, rubber boots, and safety shoes, etc. Their website says that 73%
of their products are made in Canada, but the filter for "made in
Canada" seems to show a rather limited selection. Many products are also
made in the USA. Interestingly, they have a recycling program for their
old boots. You can drop off or mail in old pairs and they will take them
back to the factory for re-use.

[Lowell MTL](https://www.lowellmtl.ca/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Leather bags and accessories for just about
anybody. All made in their workshop located in the Hochelaga-Maisonneuve
neighbourhood, east of downtown, but their flagship store is located on
St.-Laurent, in the Mile-End neighbourhood. Their products are made
using leather from the States (most likely Horween or Hermann Oak) and
sometimes recycled fur, which they buy once a year from anyone willing
to sell their old fur products. Named after the hometown of
French-Canadian-American novelist Jack "'ti Jean" Kerouac, symbolizing
the bonds between QuÃ©becois and Americans.

[Math Sport](https://www.mathsport.ca/en/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. The only company I was able to find that
manufactures running shoes in Canada. Math Sport's business model
involves a customizable running shoe (even to the bespoke level, where
you take foot prints/measurements and have a shoe built based on them).
Things like colour, cushioning thickness, and other parameters can be
changed to produce a shoe that fits your purpose and running style. All
shoes feature Vibram soles, and are assembled in MontrÃ©al.

[m0851](https://www.m0851.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Known for their bags and leather-based
accessories, all of which are handcrafted in MontrÃ©al. They also sell
outerwear, primarily leather jackets, but also non-leather goods for men
and women.

[Manitobah Mukluks](http://www.manitobah.ca/)

About 20% of their products are manufactured in Winnipeg, MB. Manitobah
is an aboriginal-owned (MÃ©tis-owned, to be specific) company making a
range of mukluks, moccasins, and storyboots---boots decorated by
Canadian Aboriginal artisans who receive 100% of the proceeds from sale.
Many products feature a custom-designed Vibram sole by Cree artist
Heather Endall.

[Martino Footwear](http://www.martinofootwear.com/)

Made in QuÃ©bec, QC. Founded in 1956. They have small lines (10-12
products for each gender) of boots made for women and men. The boots are
designed for harsh winters, and all are well-insulated and waterproof.

[Mellow Walk](http://www.mellowwalk.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Apparently the last shoe factory in Ontario, Mellow
Walk makes a wide variety of CSA safety shoes in an effort to dispel the
notion that they are always, and by necessity, ugly. Decide for
yourself.

[Oak&Honey](http://www.oakandhoneyleather.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Similar in tone to m0851, but with a narrower
product line, encompassing accessories and bags.

[Popov Leather](https://www.popovleather.ca/)

Made in Nelson, BC. Leather accessories from wallets to notebooks to
iPhone cases and tote bags.

[Roots](https://www.roots.com/ca/en/homepage)

Leather products allegedly made in Toronto, ON. Only their boots, belts,
wallets, bags, and other leather goods are made in Canada as far as I
know. I had a pair of their boots one time. I treated them like shit and
they still lasted me three MontrÃ©al winters (and all the water and salt
those entail). Despite wrapping themselves in the Canadian flag, Roots
sent most of their apparel manufacturing overseas by 2006, citing
"costs" as the main precipitant. This is probably bullshit.

[Ryaton](https://ryaton.com/)

Made in Edmonton, AB. Leather boots and accessories. Primarily made from
Hermann Oak and Horween leathers, with a small proportion sources from
other retailers. Their website has a great deal of information about the
practices involved in producing and tanning leather. The design and
manufacture are done with a great deal of intention and deliberation, so
I recommend checking them out.

[Saute Mouton](http://www.saute-mouton.com/en/)

Made in QuÃ©bec, QC. No-nonsense leather boots and shoes for men and
women. Some products include sealskin and cowhide (i.e. with hair), if
you're into that sort of thing.

[Sylvia Soo Leather](http://www.sylviasooleather.com/)

Made in Edmonton, AB. Women's leather accessories. Wallets and bags make
up the bulk of their products. They have a line of one-off highly
decorated pieces, often featuring intricate carving or painting on the
leather, with beautiful results. The founder and owner discovered her
love of leatherworking while taking an art therapy course during cancer
radiation treatment.

[Terra Footwear](http://www.terrafootwear.com)

Some products made in Cambridge, ON (presumably). Terra makes CSA
certified work boots in a number of styles, for men and women. Not all
of their products are made in Canada, but the webstore can be filtered
to show the products that are.

[The Stowe](https://thestowe.com/)

Made in Montreal, QC (speficially in Mile-End). Leather accessories,
primarily women's bags. They also make wallets and belts. Brand founded
by Calgary native Molly Spittal.

[Viberg](https://viberg.com/)

Made in Victoria, BC and Winnipeg, MB. Founded in 1931. They make boots
and shoes, and are widely noted for their excellent quality, durability,
and style (do a search on /r/goodyearwelt and see for yourself).
Considered by many to be the final word in Canadian-made leather
footwear (sorry, Dayton).

[Yuketen](http://www.yuketen.com/)

Some items made in Winnipeg, MB. An American leather shoe company that
outsources some of its work to the Canada West Boots company in Manitoba
(see above). The rest of their shoes are made in France, Italy, Mexico,
and the United States. Casual footwear like chukkas, loafers, and
sandals, all the way up to oxfords and even some very nice boots. Lots
of colours and different leathers. They also do personal orders for
their American-made products.

10. UNDERWEAR&SOCKS.
====================

![march&august-2.jpg](media/image32.jpeg){width="1.7716535433070866in"
height="2.2244094488188977in"}![Image result for
stanfields](media/image33.jpeg){width="2.4921259842519685in"
height="2.2244094488188977in"}![https://scontent-lax3-1.cdninstagram.com/t51.2885-15/e35/13712518\_500666496809910\_678882291\_n.jpg](media/image34.jpeg){width="3.2086614173228347in"
height="2.2244094488188977in"}

[CJ Grenier](http://www.cjgrenier.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Founded in 1860. Makers of bras and underwear for
women.

[Fortnight Lingerie](https://fortnightlingerie.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Modern lingerie and swimwear for the ladies. The
underwear is more on the everyday wear side than the ornamental, with a
focus on wearability and functionality.

[Great Canadian Sox](http://www.greatsox.com/)

Made in East York (Toronto), ON. Established originally as J.B. Field in
Tavistock, ON in 1877. After changing hands once or twice, the mills (in
Stratford and Tavistock) were bought by the Great Canadian Sox Co. in
1998. They've had a plant in East York since 2005. Everything from work,
dress, and sports socks to diabetes and compression socks, for men and
women.

[JM](http://www.jm.ca/)

Made in Montreal , QC. Underwear for men and women. Unfortunately they
do not make bras, just underwear bottoms for women. They also make men's
swim suits and loungewear for all sexes, as well as a small selection of
casual items like bamboo-fibre t-shirts.

[Mary Young](http://maryyoung.ca/)

Likely made in Toronto, ON. Women's underwear and lingerie brand, also
featuring some t-shirts, tank tops, and other casual garments. Not all
items are made in Canada, but most are.

[Sokoloff Lingerie](https://www.sokolofflingerie.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Underwear without padding or constriction, meant
to accent the wearer's natural shape. Their pieces use transparency and
sheer fabrics a lot, along with subtle details like lace and small
openings.

[Stanfield\'s](http://www.stanfields.com/)

Made in Truro, NS. Founded in Truro in 1870 as Truro Woolen Mills.
Interestingly, they made a particular long underwear "unshrinkable"
onesie that was popular with Klondike miners in the gold rush of 1897.
Now they make a range of underwear, socks, and some basics like
t-shirts. For men, women, and children.

[Thigh Society](http://www.thighsociety.ca/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Chafe-free panty shorts for active women. They
wick sweat and contain no elastics, so while they're stretchy they won't
rub, and will stay in place.

11. BABIES&CHILDREN.
====================

![](media/image35.png){width="1.7169816272965879in"
height="2.2236581364829395in"}![https://scontent.cdninstagram.com/t51.2885-15/s640x640/sh0.08/e35/14309765\_666251620210057\_3897988622791475200\_n.jpg?ig\_cache\_key=MTM0NDU4MjkxMDY3ODAwMzk1OA%3D%3D.2](media/image36.jpeg){width="3.0347222222222223in"
height="2.213888888888889in"}![https://cdn.shopify.com/s/files/1/1323/5947/collections/OuiMe-246\_grande.jpg](media/image37.jpeg){width="2.6243055555555554in"
height="2.2194444444444446in"}

[AMP Diapers](https://www.ampdiapers.com/)

Made in Winnipeg, MB. Originally a cloth diaper manufacturer, AMP now
also makes the CuddlyWrap, which was developed by PeaPod creations (they
decided to wind down their business in the last year).

[Bummis](https://www.bummis.com/ca/en/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Cloth diapers and a variety of accessories for
babies and those who care for them, most of which are made in Canada
from fabrics milled in North America.

[ElectrikKids](https://www.electrikkidz.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Originally a maker of triangular "baby bandanas"
which incorporated an attached pacifier clip, ElectrikKidz now makes
range of products for children of ages 0-5 from outerwear to sleepsacks.
Their products feature fun and often hilarious designs, from David Bowie
to MontrÃ©al Expo memorabilia.

[Mini Mioche](http://www.minimioche.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Organic, made-in-Canada clothing for babies and
children up to 8 years old. Most of the clothing seems relatively
gender-neutral.

[Mother Ease](http://mother-ease.com/)

Made in St. Catharine's, ON. Cloth diapers and a few other odds and ends
for tiny humans.

[OuiMe](https://ouime.myshopify.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON, despite the name. Another brand featuring organic
cotton and making clothing for humans up to 8 years old. Started in
2012, partially motivated by a gap in the market for boys' clothing.
Designs feature graphic prints as well as solid colours, with designs
that mimic the clothing of urban 20 somethings these days. More geared
towards boys, it seems.

[Triple Flip](https://tripleflip.ca/)

Where applicable, made in Calgary, AB. Activewear line for young girls.
Not all of their stuff is made here, but they suggest that most of it
is. Nice alternative to lululemon's ivivva brand (which I'm fairly sure
is made in China).

[VONBON](http://vonbon.ca/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Similar in concept to Mini Mioche, this brand
features organic cotton as well as a focus on adjustable garments,
allowing greater utility and longer wear through the child's growth
stages. Also fairly unisex in their appearance.

12. ACCESSORIES.
================

![https://scontent-sea1-1.cdninstagram.com/t51.2885-15/e35/14482713\_1321508584527421\_1066612440281645056\_n.jpg](media/image38.jpeg){width="1.288888888888889in"
height="2.2194444444444446in"}![](media/image39.jpeg){width="1.0in"
height="2.2194444444444446in"}![https://scontent-sea1-1.cdninstagram.com/t51.2885-15/e35/13584102\_1405641292796997\_38576570\_n.jpg](media/image40.jpeg){width="1.7048611111111112in"
height="2.2194444444444446in"}![https://scontent-sea1-1.cdninstagram.com/t51.2885-15/e35/13739614\_277867792580052\_1808113265\_n.jpg](media/image41.jpeg){width="1.8802088801399826in"
height="2.218614391951006in"}![https://scontent-sea1-1.cdninstagram.com/t51.2885-15/e35/14374447\_687694131379606\_831254747926233088\_n.jpg](media/image42.jpeg){width="1.601388888888889in"
height="2.2194444444444446in"}

[Ambler Hats](http://amblermw.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC, the company was originally founded in Canmore, AB
by Peter Ambler. Since his death in 2004, the company has since been
bought by a husband-wife duo in Nelson BC. Makers of hats, from tuques
to truckers. Lots have graphic prints on them, but they also make
plainer ones in a variety of colourways. MEC stocks some of their
products, including tuques and ball caps.

[Apogee Goods](https://www.apogeegoods.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Primarily leather and canvas bags, as well as belts
and wallets/card/coin carriers. Understated design and a minimum of
detailing.

[Barrington Griffiths Watches](http://www.bgwatch.com/index.php)

Made in Calgary, AB. Swiss movement, Canadian assembly. Watches with a
combination of minimalist modern styling and classic silhouettes. They
only make two models of watch, so choosing should be pretty easy.

[Bite Beauty](http://bitebeauty.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Lipsticks, glosses, and makeup. The makeup is
entirely made with food-grade ingredients and is apparently
"all-natural" (which is a nebulous term, and should be taken with a
grain of salt). No online shop, but their products are available on
Sephora's website for purchase. They also have a "lab" in SoHo, NYC
where custom colours can be blended on the spot. The factory is on Geary
Ave., an indescribably ugly little street in Dovercourt Village, Toronto
that is experiencing some hype for its music scene of late. Bite was
founded by Susanne Langmuir, who (probably coincidentally) shares a last
name with renowned chemist Irving Langmuir.

[BÃ–](https://tensewatch.ca/)

Made from reclaimed materials in Vancouver, BC. Wooden bowties. Wide
selection of styles with colour accents to allow matching and
coordinating. They even have a tuxedo-appropriate "black" line and a
line made of concrete from a collaboration with dconstruct.

[Chayle](https://shop.chayle.ca/)

Made in Ottawa, ON. Jewelry primarily for women, but some unisex designs
can be found. Chayle places special emphasis on using ethical materials,
including fair trade gemstones, Canadian diamonds, and metals that are
predominantly recycled, from refineries in the USA. Founded by Chayle
Cook in 2013.

[Cocotte Ã‰quipement](http://www.cocotte-equip.com/english/)

Made in the Plateau Mont-Royal (MontrÃ©al), QC. Messenger bags,
backpacks, and other accessories for the hard-wearing urban cyclist.
Very few brick and mortar retailers (their only North American one being
in Moncton, NB), so online is your best bet.

[Crown Cap](http://crowncap.com/)

Made in Winnipeg, MB. Huge variety of different hat styles, mostly made
in Canada. Everything from fur hats to five-panels in Melton wool.
Founded in 1934.

[Cursor & Thread](https://www.cursorandthread.com/)

Made in various locations in Canada, as well as some in the US. Ties,
pocket squares, suspenders, and other sartorial accessories for adults,
with lots of fun patterns. One of the few places I've encountered where
one can find French-knot bowties.

[Custom Woolen Mills](http://www.customwoolenmills.com/)

Made in Carstairs, AB. A family-run woolen mill that has been operating
for a few generations. They primarily sell yarn and wool, but also make
socks, blankets, and bedding. They sell kits to make your own garments
as well, if you're one of the hard-core DIY knitting types.

[dconstruct](http://www.dconstruct.ca/)

Made in Winnipeg, MB. Jewelry made from reclaimed resins and recycled
materials. Stocked by a very impressive number of stores across Canada,
with a very large presence in Alberta and British Columbia.

[Elaine Ho](http://elaine-ho.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Fairly minimalist jewelry, often consisting of
highly geometric designs such as the Platonic solids, or crystal-like
structures. Mostly necklaces, pendants, and earrings.

[eleven thirty](http://eleventhirtyshop.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Simple and elegant leather bags (shoulder bags and
backbacks) for women. Made using full grain leather and even several
different types of cowhide (with hair on) for a pretty unique look. One
of their three designs is a "bucket bag", a type of should bag that is
essentially a large drawstring pouch.

[Erin Templeton](https://www.erintempleton.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Leather bags and accessories with a vintage feel,
for women. Everything from backpacks to totes and makeup bags. Primarily
made of leather, with some items being made of recycled leathers as
well. Some items even feature locally produced and tanned leathers,
though details are sparse.

[Exit Workshop](https://www.exitworkshop.com/)

Made in Edmonton, AB. Handmade outdoor accessories for men and women.
Hats, tuques, scarves, and camera straps.

[FRÃœG](http://www.frug.ca/)

Made in Ottawa, ON. Primarily women's jewelry. Tamara Steinborn and
Nathan Dubo founded this brand in 2000, and have created two off-shoot
brands RÃ¼sse and Tamara Steinborn over the years. Their headquarters has
moved several times, but is now in Ottawa's Byward Market.

[Guild Eyewear](http://www.guildeyewear.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Modern and somewhat flashy eyewear including
sunglasses and Rx-ready frames in interesting shapes and colourways.

[KRANE](http://www.kranedesign.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. High-end accessories and outerwear for men and
women. They make a wide range of bags, as well as wallets and other
accessories, as well as selling a variety of peacoats, bombers, and
other jackets and coats. Founded by artist Ken Chow.

[Lajoie](http://www.chezlajoie.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Leather bags and accessories (primarily wallets
and card holders). All items are hand-stitched and made primarily from
Horween leather. Originally founded using a
[Kickstarter](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/649057355/lajoie-hand-stitched-leather-greats)
in the first half of 2016, by Jordan Lajoie.

[Lillie & Cohoe](http://www.lillieandcohoe.com/)

Made in Nelson, BC. Fine women's hats since 1990, typically knitted or
wool.

[Ludachris Hats](http://www.ludachrishats.com/index.html)

Made in Mount Forest, ON. This hilariously named company does
large-scale hat manufacturing in a number of styles, primarily
specializing in baseball hats and similar such headwear.

[MacAusland's Woollen Mills](http://www.macauslandswoollenmills.com/)

Made in Bloomfield, PEI. Another wool mill that primarily sells their
yarn and fabric, but they also make some very nice wool blankets in a
number of basic patterns.

[Made You Look](http://www.madeyoulook.ca/)

Made by numerous designers in Toronto, ON. Jewelry shop specializing in
the works of local Toronto designers, everything from casual jewelry to
engagement and weddings rings.

[Michique](http://www.michique.ca/)

Made in Sydney, Cape Breton Island, NS. Patent leather handbags,
clutches, and other bags made by two sisters. Fairly colourful, as a
rule, and decorated with Swarovski crystals for their logo. I think
Camilla Parker-Bowles was seen with one of these once, so yeah. Get
hype.

[Monte & Coe](https://www.monteandcoe.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Makers of fine bags in small batches. Sizes range
from toiletry bags to duffel bags, featuring high quality wool and full
grain leather.

[Mosher Originals](http://mosheroriginals.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Founded in 2012, the company got its start in
making coats for dogs, strangely enough. From there they've expanded
into making backpacks and accessories for humans as well. Designs range
from courier-friendly backpacks to belt bags and daypacks for hikers, to
backpacks for kids. They source their fabrics from North American
suppliers, and generally use water-resistant fabrics.

[Mother Co.](https://mother.co/)

Made in Calgary, AB. A limited product range of unisex backpacks, duffel
bags, messenger bags, and briefcases. They also do some software
development, with their first app being called Communities.

[Nocturnal Workshop](http://nocturnalworkshop.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Backpacks, totes, and toiletry bags made with a
keen eye to detail and modern design. Mostly simple colour palettes, and
technical features like taped seams, water resistant fabrics, and 3M
reflective nylon abound. Similar in some ways to Mission Workshop (from
SF).

[Olena Zylak](https://olenazylak.com/)

Made in Collingwood, Ontario. Knit hats (mostly tuques) and accessories
for the ladies.

[Opelle](https://opellecanada.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Luxury leather bags for women. Leather sourced
primarily from Italy, Germany, and Spain. They use a very restrained
colour palette (black, white, moss green, and a few pastels here and
there), but their product range spans a wide range of bag styles, from
clutches and purses to rucksacks.

[Palmer & Sons](https://palmerandsons.ca/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Luxury bags from duffels ro handbags and
rucksacks, all made of leather, with a very old-fashioned, almost
Victorian aesthetic. They also make a few accessories like bels and
cuffs (bracelets).

[Puffin Gear](https://puffingear.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Hats and scarves for adults and children, made of a
wide variety of fabrics including Melton wool and Polartec, to name just
a couple.

[Pyrrha Jewelry](https://pyrrha.com/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Jewelry for men and women with a raw, rough-hewn
sort of look to it. They feature "talismans" quite heavily, but also
make a variety of necklaces, rings, money clips, and so on. Most of
their iconography comes from the Victorian era, especially wax seals
from that time period, which yields very interesting results. Prices are
all in US dollars, which is a huge bummer.

[Raber Glove](http://www.raberglove.com/)

Made in Winnipeg, MB. Leather gloves and mittens for all sorts of
applications. Founded in 1941 by Abraham Raber, the company supplies
many police and military agencies with gloves for use in the field. They
also make dress gloves, arctic mittens, and work gloves for us
civilians.

[Rapp Eyewear](http://rappoptical.ca/rappeyewear/about/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Flagship is in Little Portugal, on College Street
in Toronto (right by Mod Club). Another Toronto-based manufacturer of
eyeglassses. Modern aesthetics and a focus on bespoke eyewear.

[Rimanchik](https://rimanchik.com/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. A wide variety of products including bags,
watches, belts, wallets, and other accessories. Most feature leather as
their central material of construction. Founded in 2003, Rimanchik is
the brainchild of Sandra Singh and Victor Nolivos. The name means "we &
you speak" in the Quichua language of South America.

[Smithbilt](https://smithbilthats.com/)

Made in Calgary, AB. A hat-making company started by another Russian
emigrÃ© in 1919. While they make quite a variety of men's and women's
hats their bread and butter is almost certainly the white cowboy hat
favoured by folks at the Calgary Stampede.

St. Moritz Watches/Momentum

Assembled in Vancouver, BC. Watches for men and women. Mostly Japanese
movement, but some have Swiss. Fairly chunky designs as a rule, with
many being dive watches.

[Stolen Riches](http://www.stolenriches.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Shoelaces for fancily-dressed gentlefolk. They\'ve
been quietly making shoelaces since 1915, but only recently expanded
into the modern look they now sport. They also make playful lapel pins,
bracelets, and pocket squares in coordinated colour sets.

[Taylor's Tartans](http://www.taylorstartans.com/)

Made in Plaster Rock, NB. As the name suggests, they specialize in
tartan patterned accessories. Hats, dog kerchiefs, suspenders, and
scarves are a few of their offerings. They offer products using Canadian
provincial tartans which is pretty nifty.

[Tense Watches](https://tensewatch.ca/)

Made in Vancouver, BC. Wooden watches handmade in Vancouver since 1971.
All watches are made from recycled or reclaimed wood, and the movement
is Japanese (Miyota). Styles for men and women, as well as several
unisex ones as well.

[Tilley Endurables](http://www.tilley.com/canada_en/)

Headquartered in Toronto, ON. Not sure where manufactured, exactly.
Known primarily for their hats, they also make shirts, underwear, and
other accessories. They state that \"everything with their name on it is
made in Canada,\" with the only exception being one style of sock, made
in Iowa.

[Truth Belts](http://www.truthbelts.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Belts and accessories, including "leather-look"
vegan belts for those who prefer not to use real leather. Lots of
different styles for men and women, including formal and casual belts in
numerous colours, prints, and materials. They also make a few other
accessories, including suspenders, a single style of wallet, and yoga
mat bands.

[Tuck Shop Trading Company](https://www.tuckshopco.com/)

Made in several locations, primarily MontrÃ©al, QC and Toronto, ON. Known
primarily for their "city of neighbourhoods" line, featuring hats with
the names of Canadian neighbourhoods on them (e.g. Mile-End,
Roncesvalles). They now have ones with other cities' neighbourhoods
(NYC, LA, etc.) and the names of cottage areas as well (like Algonquin).
They also make sweaters, t-shirts, and other apparel.

[Van Raay Jewelry](https://vanraayjewelry.com/)

Made in Kingston, ON by fellow redditor
[/u/withahammer](https://www.reddit.com/user/withahammer), aka Miranda
Scott. Handmade Jewelry featuring a mix of geometric, nature-inspired,
and texture-heavy styles. From stud earrings to engagement rings.

[Vasanti Cosmetics](https://vasanticosmetics.com/)

Made in Scarborough, ON. Wide range of makeup and other cosmetics for
women.

[Velvet Moustache](https://velvetmoustache.ca/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. A bestiary of animal-shaped pillows and soft toys,
for decoration or for giving to your kids.

[Woolfell](https://www.woolfell.net/)

Made in MontrÃ©al, QC. Primarily bags for city dwellers. They use a lot
of leather for their more fashion-oriented bags, but also make a range
of highly functional and waterproof duffels, backpacks, and shoulder
bags. They also make some apparel and knick-knacks like coasters,
keychains, and cellphone cases. Founded in 2013 by Laurence Girouard and
Marko Joncas.

[YNOT](https://www.ynotmade.com/)

Made in Toronto, ON. Established in 2009 by Tony Mammoliti, YNOT now
make a wide range of cycling-oriented products. Backpacks, messenger
bags, panniers, pedal straps, tuques, 5-panels, and accessories. They
also make nice duffel bags, and have some apparel in their online store
(the online store also carries other brands).

iii. FINALWORD.
===============

![](media/image43.png){width="2.5in"
height="2.2283464566929134in"}![](media/image44.jpg){width="3.3307086614173227in"
height="2.2283464566929134in"}![](media/image45.png){width="1.658196631671041in"
height="2.2244094488188977in"}

So there you have it. That\'s my current list of known brands that
manufacture in Canada. Notably absent here are things like running and
skate shoes, which as far as I know do not have any Canadian
manufacturers. As previously stated, I am happy to receive information
about any manufacturers not listed here.

People on reddit often state \"vote with your wallet". I rarely see
anyone suggesting how to do that. I want to help people to actually vote
with their wallets, in favour of Canadian businesses and Canadian
manufacturing. I won\'t make this political, but I think in general that
buying items that are local (or at least more local) is a good thing in
many ways. I want to help people to do that, if that is their wish.

Most clothing made in Canada is not cheap. Some styles are more
affordable than others. However, most of the brands above cater to a
slightly more specialized market, and as such they do charge higher
prices. They do not aim to compete with H&M, so their prices will quite
simply never compare. And clothing not made by outsourced labour has a
*cachet* to it that commands a higher price irrespective of other
considerations.

I can say from my experience with a few of these brands that the higher
price is generally worth it: frequently better quality, better
durability, and the knowledge that you\'re typically supporting a
smaller business, closer to home, and helping (just a bit) to keep
manufacturing alive here. Additionally, these companies are subject to
familiar and comparatively transparent labour standards. Physical
proximity to company headquarters also means that should any business
run afoul of said standards, inspection is easier and the system much
less prone to corruption and subversion than in impoverished countries.
Even Patagonia, a company well-known for its efforts to employ people
using fair labour practices, has found transgressions during its
self-audits, probably in no small part because their manufacturers are
located far away and in many different countries. While the cat's away,
and so on. There are also companies that use unfair labour practices in
the United States and probably in Canada, illegally. Alexander Wang, for
instance, was sued by American workers over this very issue in New York
garment production facilities a few years back.

Clothes can be expensive if made in first-world countries using first
world labour standards. Sometimes they might seem ruinously so. One way
to deal with this is to simply buy fewer items, and keep your wardrobe
smaller. This is doubly beneficial. Fast fashion is a recent development
that has dramatically increased the disposability of garments,
encouraging unnecessary consumption.

Resist this. Choose timelessness over fads. Choose quality over
quantity.

iv. CHANGELOG![](media/image46.png){width="7.492597331583552in" height="2.220547900262467in"}
=============================================================================================

Version 2.3

*28 June 2017.* Updates pushed to PDF and published online.

*28 June 2017.* Minor typographical changes in "Using this Guide" and
"Blank Garments & Manufacturers".

*28 June 2017. A*dded the following brands

> AMP Diapers (babies & children)\
> Apogee Goods (accessories)\
> Arctic Bay (outerwear)\
> Betina Lou (women's apparel)\
> Bonnetier (men's and women's apparel)\
> Bummis (babies & children)\
> Cursor & Thread (accessories)\
> Erin Templeton (accessories)\
> ElectrikKidz (babies & children)\
> Harris Loungewear (men's & women's apparel)\
> Kania (women's apparel)\
> Lajoie (accessories)\
> Marmier (men's & women's apparel)\
> Mother Co. (accessories)\
> Nettle's Tale (athletic & sportswear)\
> Opelle (accessories)\
> Palmer & Sons\
> Rimanchik (accessories)\
> StrateRazor (men's & women's apparel)\
> Studio D (women's apparel)\
> This Is J (women's apparel)\
> Velvet Moustache (accessories)\
> Woolfell (accessories)

Version 2.2

*26 June 2017.* Updates pushed to PDF and published online.

*26 June 2017.* Made minor typographical changes (indentation, page
numbering, table of contents)

*16 June 2017.* Made the following modifications

> Added information about Sitka's efforts to move all manufacturing back
> to Canada

*16 June 2017.* Added the following brands

> Awaken Apparel (men's & women's apparel)\
> Arctic North (outerwear)\
> Bather (athletic and sportswear)\
> Buttercream Clothing (men's & women's apparel)\
> Chayle (accessories: jewelry)\
> Hoi Bo (women's apparel)\
> Rimpy Sahota (women's apparel)\
> SkookumBrand (outerwear)\
> Vestige Story (women's apparel)\
> The Wild North Apparel (outerwear)

*29 April 2017.* Made the following modifications:

> Changed name of "Pants&Denim" to "Jeans&Denim"\
> Added online shop information for Naked & Famous (jeans & denim).

*29 April 2017.* Added the following brands

> Abaka (men's and women's apparel)\
> Act Three Apparel (women's apparel)\
> Amanda Moss (women's apparel)\
> Chloe Angus (women's apparel)\
> Delvyn van Loon (women's apparel)\
> Duffield Design (women's apparel)\
> Erdaine Knitwear (women's apparel)\
> Fortnight Lingerie (underwear)\
> KAZZ Clothing (womern's apparel)\
> Marigold (women's apparel)\
> Meemoza (women's apparel)\
> PiÃ±a Styles (men's and women's apparel)\
> Pyrrha Jewelry (accessories)\
> Sokoloff Lingerie (underwear).\
> Sunja Link (women's apparel)

*9 April 2017.* Added the following brands:

> Atelier B (men's and women's apparel)\
> ValÃ©rie Dumaine (women's apparel).

*8 April 2017.* Added the following brands:

> Amanda Maria (women's apparel)\
> Eve Gravel (women's apparel)\
> Jennifer Glasgow (women's apparel)\
> Noctex (men's and women's apparel).

*3 April 2017.* Added the following brands:

> Foreign Rider (men's and women's apparel)\
> Lowell MTL (leather & shoes)\
> Of Sharks & Men (men's & women's apparel)\
> RYU Apparel (athletic & sportswear)\
> Str/ke Movement (athletic & sportswear).

*2 April 2017.* Added the following brands:

> Commonwealth Manufacturing (men's and women's apparel)\
> Hides in Hand (leather & shoes)\
> Math Sport (leather and shoes)\
> Paloma Blanca (women's apparel)\
> Pollen Sweaters (men's and women's apparel)\
> Power of My People (men's and women's apparel)\
> Raber Glove (accessories)\
> Seed Yoga (athletic & sportswear)\
> Smoking Lily (women's apparel)\
> Taiga Works (outerwear)\
> Van Raay Jewelry (accessories)\
> Vonella Clothing (men's tailored & dress attire)\
> Yuketen (leather & shoes).

*1 April 2017.* Added the following brands:

> Alberta Apparel (men's and women's clothing\
> Arturo Denim Co. (pants&denim)\
> Ballin (men's tailored & dress attire)\
> Brenda BeddomÃ© (women's apparel)\
> Cinder+Smoke\
> Clo's General Leather Co. (leather & shoes)\
> Creature Leather (leather & shoes)\
> Exit Workshop (accessories)\
> Flannel Foxes (men's and women's apparel)\
> Gilmour Clothing (women's apparel)\
> Ironhead (outerwear)\
> Malorie Urbanovitch (women's apparel)\
> Offal Goods (accessories)\
> Oak&Honey (leather)\
> Ryaton (leather & shoes)\
> Sylvia Soo Leather (leather & shoes)\
> Work&Shop Boutique (women's apparel).

*1 April 2017.* Removed the following brands:

> Northern Park (men's and women's apparel, defunct)\
> March and August (underwear, defunct).

*1 April 2017.* Made the following modifications:

> Viberg manufactured in Victoria, BC, and Winnipeg, MB\
> Strong&Free Apparel now called Strong & Free Emblem\
> Mammoth Outwear now called Wully Outerwear\
> Sons of Ã“din now known as the Feral.

Version 2.1

*18 November 2016.* Added changelog. Minor typographical changes.
Version not published.

Version 2.0

*21 October 2016.* Initial publication.

[Version
1.5](https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/4bkiwa/madeincanada_clothing_a_list/)

*3 April 2016*. Initial publication (superseded version 1.0, original
published 23 March 2017).

![](media/image47.jpg){width="0.28025153105861766in"
height="0.2952755905511811in"}

MADE IN CANADA

PLEASE COPY AND DISTRIBUTE FREELY

![https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/8b/Copyleft.svg/2000px-Copyleft.svg.png](media/image48.png){width="0.11811023622047244in"
height="0.11811023622047244in"} NICK UHLIG 2017
